                                      1898                                  
                                                                            
                         AMERICAN HISTORICAL DOCUMENTS                      
                                                                            
                       ANNEXATION OF THE HAWAIIAN ISLANDS                   
                                                                            
                                
  Joint Resolution to provide for annexing the Hawaiian Islands to the      
United States.                                                              
   Whereas, the Government of the Republic of Hawaii having, in due         
form, signified its consent, in the manner provided by its                  
constitution, to cede absolutely and without reserve to the United          
States of America, all rights of sovereignty of whatsoever kind in and      
over the Hawaiian Islands and their dependencies, and also to cede and      
transfer to the United States, the absolute fee and ownership of all        
public, Government, or Crown lands, public buildings or edifices,           
ports, harbors, military equipment, and all other public property of        
every kind and description belonging to the Government of the Hawaiian      
Islands, together with every right and appurtenance thereunto               
appertaining: Therefore,                                                    
  Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United         
States of America in Congress assembled, That said cession is               
accepted, ratified, and confirmed, and that the said Hawaiian               
Islands and their dependencies be, and they are hereby, annexed as a        
part of the territory of the United States and are subject to the           
sovereign dominion thereof, and that all and singular the property and      
rights hereinbefore mentioned are vested in the United States of            
America.                                                                    
  The existing laws of the United States relative to public lands           
shall not apply to such lands in the Hawaiian Islands; but the              
Congress of the United States shall enact special laws for their            
management and disposition: Provided, That all revenue from or              
proceeds of the same, except as regards such part thereof as may be         
used or occupied for the civil, military, or naval purposes of the          
United States, or may be assigned for the use of the local government,      
shall be used solely for the benefit of the inhabitants of the              
Hawaiian Islands for educational and other public purposes.                 
  Until Congress shall provide for the government of such islands           
all the civil, judicial, and military powers exercised by the officers      
of the existing government in said islands shall be vested in such          
person or persons and shall be exercised in such manner as the              
President of the United States shall direct; and the President shall        
have power to remove said officers and fill the vacancies so                
occasioned.                                                                 
  The existing treaties of the Hawaiian Islands with foreign nations        
shall forthwith cease and determine, being replaced by such treaties        
as may exist, or as may be hereafter concluded, between the United          
States and such foreign nations. The municipal legislation of the           
Hawaiian Islands, not enacted for the fulfillment of the treaties so        
extinguished, and not inconsistent with this joint resolution nor           
contrary to the Constitution of the United States nor to any                
existing treaty of the United States, shall remain in force until           
the Congress of the United States shall otherwise determine.                
  Until legislation shall be enacted extending the United States            
customs laws and regulations to the Hawaiian Islands the existing           
customs relations of the Hawaiian Islands with the United States and        
other countries shall remain unchanged.                                     
  The public debt of the Republic of Hawaii, lawfully existing at           
the date of the passage of this joint resolution, including the             
amounts due to depositors in the Hawaiian Postal Savings Bank, is           
hereby assumed by the Government of the United States; but the              
liability of the United States in this regard shall in no case              
exceed four million dollars. So long, however, as the existing              
Government and the present commercial relations of the Hawaiian             
Islands are continued as hereinbefore, provided said Government             
shall continue to pay the interest on said debt.                            
  There shall be no further immigration of Chinese into the Hawaiian        
Islands, except upon such conditions as are now or may hereafter be         
allowed by the laws of the United States; and no Chinese, by reason of      
anything herein contained, shall be allowed to enter the United States      
from the Hawaiian Islands.                                                  
  SEC. 1. The President shall appoint five commissioners, at least two      
of whom shall be residents of the Hawaiian Islands, who shall, as soon      
as reasonably practicable, recommend to Congress such legislation           
concerning the Hawaiian Islands as they shall deem necessary or             
proper.                                                                     
  SEC. 2. That the commissioners hereinbefore provided for shall be         
appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of           
the Senate.                                                                 
  SEC. 3. That the sum of one hundred thousand dollars, or so much          
thereof as may be necessary, is hereby appropriated, out of any             
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, and to be                 
immediately available, to be expended at the discretion of the              
President of the United States of America, for the purpose of carrying      
this joint resolution into effect.                                          
                                                                          
  Approved, July 7, 1898.                                                   

