                                      1803                                  
                                                                            
                         AMERICAN HISTORICAL DOCUMENTS                      
                                                                            
                               TREATY WITH FRANCE                           

  TREATY WITH FRANCE FOR THE CESSION OF LOUISIANA, CONCLUDED AT PARIS,      
APRIL 30, 1803; RATIFICATION ADVISED BY SENATE, OCTOBER 20, 1803;           
RATIFIED BY PRESIDENT OCTOBER 21, 1803; RATIFICATIONS EXCHANGED AT          
WASHINGTON OCTOBER 21, 1803; PROCLAIMED OCTOBER 21, 1803.                   
-                                                                           
  The President of the United States of America, and the First              
Consul of the French Republic, in the name of the French people,            
desiring to remove all source of misunderstanding relative to               
objects of discussion mentioned in the second and fifth articles of         
the convention of the 8th Vendemiaire, an 9 (30th September, 1800)          
relative to the rights claimed by the United States, in virtue of           
the treaty concluded at Madrid, the 27th of October, 1795, between His      
Catholic Majesty and the said United States, and willing to strengthen      
the union and friendship which at the time of the said convention           
was happily re-established between the two nations, have                    
respectively named their Plenipotentiaries, to wit: the President of        
the United States, [of America,] by and with the advice and consent of      
the Senate of the said States, Robert R. Livingston, Minister               
Plenipotentiary of the United States, and James Monroe, Minister            
Plenipotentiary and Envoy Extraordinary of the said States, near the        
Government of the French Republic; and the First Consul, in the name        
of the French people, Citizen Francis Barbs Marbois, Minister of the        
Public Treasury; who, after having respectively exchanged their full        
powers, have agreed to the following articles:                              
-                                                                           
                            ARTICLE I                                       
-                                                                           
  Whereas by the article of the third of the treaty concluded at St.        
Idelfonso, the 9th Vendemiaire, an 9 (1st October, 1800,) between           
the First Consul of the French Republic and His Catholic Majesty, it        
was agreed as follows: "His Catholic Majesty promises and engages on        
his part, to cede to the French Republic, six months after the full         
and entire execution of the conditions and stipulations herein              
relative to His Royal Highness the Duke of Parma, the colony or             
province of Louisiana, with the same extent that it now has in the          
hands of Spain, and that it had when France possessed it, and such          
as it should be after the treaties subsequently entered into between        
Spain and other States." And whereas, in pursuance of the treaty,           
and particularly of the third article, the French Republic has an           
incontestable title to the domain and to the possession of the said         
territory: The First Consul of the French Republic desiring to give to      
the United States a strong proof of his friendship, doth hereby cede        
to the said United States, in the name of the French Republic, forever      
and in full sovereignty, the said territory, with all its rights and        
appurtenances, as fully and in the same manner as they have been            
acquired by the French Republic, in virtue of the above-mentioned           
treaty, concluded with His Catholic Majesty.                                
-                                                                           
                           ARTICLE II                                       
-                                                                           
  In the cession made by the preceding article are included the             
adjacent islands belonging to Louisiana, all public lots and                
squares, vacant lands, and all public buildings, fortifications,            
barracks and other edifices which are not private property. The             
archives, papers, and documents, relative to the domain and                 
sovereignty of Louisiana and its dependences, will be left in the           
possession of the commissaries of the United States, and copies will        
be afterwards given in due form to the magistrates and municipal            
officers of such of the said papers and documents as may be                 
necessary to them.                                                          
-                                                                           
                          ARTICLE III                                       
-                                                                           
  The inhabitants of the ceded territory shall be incorporated in           
the Union of the United States, and admitted as soon as possible,           
according to the principles of the Federal Constitution, to the             
enjoyment of all the rights, advantages, and immunities of citizens of      
the United States; and in the meantime they shall be maintained and         
protected in the free enjoyment of their liberty, property, and the         
religion which they profess.                                                
-                                                                           
-                                                                           
-                                                                           
                           ARTICLE IV                                       
-                                                                           
  There shall be sent by the Government of France a commissary to           
Louisiana, to the end that he do every act necessary, as well to            
receive from the officers of His Catholic Majesty the said country and      
its dependences, in the name of the French Republic, if it has not          
been already done, as to transmit it in the name of the French              
Republic to the commissary or agent of the United States.                   
-                                                                           
                            ARTICLE V                                       
-                                                                           
  Immediately after the ratification of the present treaty by the           
President of the United States, and in case that of the First Consul        
shall have been previously obtained, the commissary of the French           
Republic shall remit all military posts of New Orleans, and other           
parts of the ceded territory, to the commissary or commissaries             
named by the President to take possession; the troops, whether of           
France or Spain, who may be there shall cease to occupy any military        
post from the time of taking possession, and shall be embarked as soon      
as possible, in the course of three months after the ratification of        
this treaty.                                                                
-                                                                           
                            ARTICLE VI                                      
-                                                                           
  The United States promise to execute such treaties and articles as        
may have been agreed between Spain and the tribes and nations of            
Indians, until, by mutual consent of the United States and the said         
tribes or nations, other suitable articles shall have been agreed           
upon.                                                                       
-                                                                           
                          ARTICLE VII                                       
-                                                                           
  As it is reciprocally advantageous to the commerce of France and the      
United States to encourage the communication of both nations for a          
limited time in the country ceded by the present treaty, until general      
arrangements relative to the commerce of both nations may be agreed         
on; it has been agreed between the contracting parties, that the            
French ships coming directly from France or any of her colonies,            
loaded only with the produce and manufactures of France or her said         
colonies; and the ships of Spain coming directly from Spain or any          
of her colonies, loaded only with the produce or manufactures of Spain      
or her colonies, shall be admitted during the space of twelve years in      
the port of New Orleans, and in all other legal ports of entry              
within the ceded territory, in the same manner as the ships of the          
United States coming directly from France or Spain, or any of their         
colonies, without being subject to any other or greater duty on             
merchandize, or other or greater tonnage than that paid by the              
citizens of the United States.                                              
  During the space of time above mentioned, no other nation shall have      
a right to the same privileges in the ports of the ceded territory;         
the twelve years shall commence three months after the exchange of          
ratifications, if it shall take place in France, or three months after      
it shall have been notified at Paris to the French Government, if it        
shall take place in the United States; it is however well understood        
that the object of the above article is to favor the manufactures,          
commerce, freight, and navigation of France and of Spain, so far as         
relates to the importations that the French and Spanish shall make          
into the said ports of the United States, without in any sort               
affecting the regulations that the United States may make concerning        
the exportation of-the produce and merchandize of the United States,        
or any right they may have to make such regulations.                        
-                                                                           
                         ARTICLE VIII                                       
-                                                                           
  In future and forever after the expiration of the twelve years,           
the ships of France shall be treated upon the footing of the most           
favoured nations in the ports above mentioned.                              
-                                                                           
                           ARTICLE IX                                       
-                                                                           
  The particular convention signed this day by the respective               
ministers, having for its object to provide for the payment of debts        
due to the citizens of the United States by the French Republic             
prior to the 30th Septr., 1800, (8th Vendemiaire, an 9,) is                 
approved, and to have its execution in the same manner as if it had         
been inserted in this present treaty; and it shall be ratified in           
the same form and in the same time, so that the one shall not be            
ratified distinct from the other.                                           
  Another particular convention signed at the same date as the present      
treaty relative to a definitive rule between the contracting parties        
is in the like manner approved, and will be ratified in the same form,      
and in the same time, and jointly.                                          
-                                                                           
                            ARTICLE X                                       
-                                                                           
  The present treaty shall be ratified in good and due form, and the        
ratifications shall be exchanged in the space of six months after           
the date of the signature by the Ministers Plenipotentiary, or              
sooner if possible.                                                         
  In faith whereof, the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed these      
articles in the French and English languages; declaring nevertheless        
that the present treaty was originally agreed to in the French              
language; and have thereunto affixed their seals.                           
-                                                                           
-                                                                           
  Done at Paris the tenth day of Floreal, in the eleventh year of           
the French Republic, and the 30th of April, 1803.                           
                                                                            
                               ROBT. R. LIVINGSTON    [L. S.]               
                               JAS. MONROE            [L. S.]               
                               F. BARBE MARBOIS       [L. S.]               

