 50 Facts About Men.

 1.  Men like to barbecue.  Men will cook if danger is involved.
 
 2.  Men who have pierced ears are better prepared for marriage.
     They've experienced pain and bought jewelry.

 3.  If you buy your husband or boyfriend a video camera, for 
     the first few weeks he has it, lock the door when you go to 
     the bathroom.  Most of my husband's early films end with a 
     scream and a flush.

 4.  Be careful of men who are bald and rich; the arrogance of 
     "rich" usually cancels out the nice of "bald."

 5.  Marrying a divorced man is ecologically responsible.  In a 
     world where there are more women than men, it pays to 
     recycle.

 6.  Men are very confident people.  My husband is so confident 
     that when he watches sports on television, he thinks that 
     if he concentrates he can help his team.  If the team is in 
     trouble, he coaches the players from our living room, and 
     if they're really in trouble, I have to get off the phone 
     in case they call him.

 7.  If it's attention you want, don't get involved with a man 
     during play-off season.

 8.  Men like phones with lots of buttons.  It makes them feel 
     important.

 9.  Men love to be the first to read the newspaper in the 
     morning. Not being the first is upsetting to their psyches.

10.  All men look nerdy in black socks and sandals.

11.  The way a man looks at himself in a mirror will tell you if 
     he can ever care about anyone else.

12.  Don't try to teach men how to do anything in public.  They 
     can learn in private; in public they have to know.

13.  Men who are going bald often wear baseball caps.

14.  All men are afraid of eyelash curlers.  I sleep with one 
     under my pillow, instead of a gun.

15.  A good place to meet a man is at the dry cleaner.  These 
     men usually have jobs and bathe.

16.  Men love watches with multiple functions.  My husband has 
     one that is a combination address book, telescope and 
     piano.

17.  All men hate to hear "We need to talk about our 
     relationship." These seven words strike fear in the heart 
     of even General Schwarzkopf.

18.  Men are sensitive in strange ways.  If a man has built a 
     fire and the last log does not burn, he will take it 
     personally.

19.  Men are brave enough to go to war, but they are not brave 
     enough to get a bikini wax.

20.  All men think that they're nice guys.  Some of them are not.
     Contact me for a list of names.

21.  Men don't get cellulite.  God might just be a man.

22.  Men have an easier time buying bathing suits.  Women have 
     two types: depressing and more depressing.  Men have two 
     types: nerdy and not nerdy.

23.  Men have higher body temperatures than women. If your 
     heating goes out in winter, I recommend sleeping next to a 
     man. Men are like portable heaters that snore.

24.  Women take clothing much more seriously than men.  I've 
     never seen a man walk into a party and say "Oh, my God, 
     I'm so embarrassed; get me out of here.  There's another 
     man wearing a black tuxedo."

25.  Most men hate to shop.  That's why the men's department is 
     usually on the first floor of a department store, two 
     inches from the door.

26.  If a man prepares dinner for you and the salad contains 
     three or more types of lettuce, he is serious.

27.  If you're dating a man who you think might be "Mr. Right," 
     if he a) got older, b) got a new job, or c) visited a 
     psychiatrist, you are in for a nasty surprise.  The 
     cocoon-to-butterfly theory only works on cocoons and 
     butterflies.

28.  Men own basketball teams.  Every year cheerleaders' outfits
     get tighter and briefer, and players' shorts get baggier 
     and longer.

29.  No man is charming all of the time.  Even Cary Grant is on 
     record saying he wished he could be Cary Grant.

30.  When four or more men get together, they talk about sports.

31.  When four or more women get together, they talk about men.

32.  Not one man in a beer commercial has a beer belly.

33.  Men are less sentimental than women.  No man has ever seen 
     the movie THE WAY WE WERE twice, voluntarily.

34.  Most women are introspective: "Am I in love?  Am I 
     emotionally and creatively fulfilled?"  Most men are 
     outrospective: "Did my team win? How's my car?"

35.  If a man says, "I'll call you," and he doesn't, he didn't 
     forget... he didn't lose your number... he didn't die. He 
     just didn't want to call you.

36.  Men hate to lose.  I once beat my husband at tennis.  I 
     asked him, "Are we going to have sex again?"  He said, 
     "Yes, but not with each other."

37.  Men who can eat anything they want and not gain weight 
     should do it out of sight of women.

38.  Getting rid of a man without hurting his masculinity is a 
     problem. "Get out" and "I never want to see you again" 
     might sound like a challenge. If you want to get rid of a 
     man, I suggest saying, "I love you... I want to marry you...
     I want to have your children." Sometimes they leave skid 
     marks.

39.  Men accept compliments much better than women do.  Example: 
     "Mitch, you look great."  Mitch:"Thanks."  On the other 
     side: "Ruth, you look great." Ruth: "I do?  Must be the 
     lighting."

40.  Impulse buying is not macho.  Men rarely call the Home 
     Shopping Network.

41.  Men who listen to classical music tend not to spit.

42.  Only men who have worn a ski suit understand how 
     complicated it is for a woman to go to the bathroom when 
     she's wearing a jumpsuit.

43.  Men don't feel the urge to get married as quickly as women 
     do because their clothes all button and zip in the front.  
     Women's dresses usually button and zip in the back. We need 
     men emotionally and sexually, but we also need men to help 
     us get dressed.

44.  Men are self-confident because they grow up identifying 
     with superheros. Women have bad self-images because they 
     grow up identifying with Barbie.

45.  When a woman tries on clothing from her closet that feels 
     tight, she will assume she has gained weight.  When a man 
     tries something from his closet that feels tight, he will 
     assume the clothing has shrunk.

46.  Male menopause is a lot more fun than female menopause.  
     With female menopause you gain weight and get hot flashes.  
     Male menopause - you get to date young girls and drive 
     motorcycles.

47.  Men forget everything; women remember everything.

48.  That's why men need instant replays in sports.  They've 
     already forgotten what happened.

49.  Men would like monogamy better if it sounded less like 
     monotony.

50.  All men would still really like to own a train set.

