                                      1899                                  
                                                                            
                         AMERICAN HISTORICAL DOCUMENTS                      
                                                                            
                               TREATY WITH SPAIN                            
                                                                           
  Treaty of Peace between the United States of America and the Kingdom      
of Spain, Signed at Paris, December 10, 1898; ratification advised          
by the Senate, February 6, 1899; ratified by the President, February        
6, 1899; ratified by Her Majesty the Queen Regent of Spain, March           
19, 1899; ratifications exchanged at Washington, April 11, 1899;            
proclaimed at Washington, April 11, 1899.                                   
-                                                                           
  THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN REGENT OF          
SPAIN, IN THE NAME OF HER AUGUST SON, DON ALFONSO XIII, desiring to         
end the state of war now existing between the two countries, have           
for the purpose appointed as Plenipotentiaries:                             
  THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,                                       
  WILLIAM R. DAY, CUSHMAN K. DAVIS, WILLIAM P. FRYE, GEORGE GRAY,           
AND WHITELAW REID, citizens of the United States;                           
  AND HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN REGENT OF SPAIN,                                
  DON EUGENIO MONTERO RIOS, PRESIDENT of the Senate,                        
  DON BUENAVENTURA DE ABARZUZA, Senator of the Kingdom, and                 
ex-Minister of the Crown,                                                   
  DON JOSE DE GARNICA, DEPUTY to the Cortes and Associate Justice of        
the Supreme Court;                                                          
  DON WENCESLAO RAMIREZ DE VILLA-URRUTIA, Envoy Extraordinary and           
Minister Plenipotentiary at Brussels, and                                   
  DON RAFAEL CERERO, General of Division;                                   
-                                                                           
  Who, having assembled in Paris, and having exchanged their full           
powers, which were found to be in due and proper form, have, after          
discussion of the matters before them, agreed upon the following            
articles:                                                                   
-                                                                           
                            ARTICLE I                                       
-                                                                           
  Spain relinquishes all claim of sovereignty over and title to Cuba.       
  And as the island is, upon its evacuation by Spain, to be occupied        
by the United States, the United States will, so long as such               
occupation shall last, assume and discharge the obligations that may        
under international law result from the fact of its occupation, for         
the protection of life and property.                                        
-                                                                           
                           ARTICLE II                                       
-                                                                           
  Spain cedes to the United States, the island of Porto Rico and other      
islands now under Spanish sovereignty in the West Indies, and the           
island of Guam in the Marianas or Ladrones.                                 
-                                                                           
-                                                                           
                          ARTICLE III                                       
-                                                                           
  Spain cedes to the United States, the archipelago known as the            
Philippine Islands, and comprehending the islands lying within the          
following line:                                                             
  A line running from viest to east along or near the twentieth             
parallel of north latitude, and through the middle of the navigable         
channel of Bachi, from the one hundred and eighteenth (118th) to the        
one hundred and twenty-seventh (127th) degree meridian of longitude         
east of Greenwich, thence along the one hundred and twenty-seventh          
(127th) degree meridian of longitude east of Greenwich to the parallel      
of four degrees and forty-five minutes (4 45') north latitude,              
thence along the parallel of four degrees and fortyfive minutes (4          
45') north latitude to its intersection with the meridian of longitude      
one hundred and nineteen degrees and thirtyfive minutes (119 35') east      
of Greenwich, thence along the meridian of longitude one hundred and        
nineteen degrees and thirty-five minutes (119 35') east of Greenwich        
to the parallel of latitude seven degrees and forty minutes (7 40')         
north, thence along the parallel of latitude seven degrees and forty        
minutes (7 40') north to its intersection with the one hundred and          
sixteenth (116th) degree meridian of longitude east of Greenwich,           
thence by a direct line to the intersection of the tenth (10th) degree      
parallel of north latitude with the one hundred and eighteenth (118th)      
degree meridian of longitude east of Greenwich, and thence along the        
one hundred and eighteenth (118th) degree meridian of longitude east        
of Greenwich to the point of beginning.                                     
  The United States will pay to Spain, the sum of twenty million            
dollars ($20,000,000) within three months after the exchange of the         
ratifications of the present treaty.                                        
-                                                                           
                           ARTICLE IV                                       
-                                                                           
  The United States will, for the term of ten years from the date of        
the exchange of the ratifications of the present treaty, admit Spanish      
ships and merchandise to the ports of the Philippine Islands on the         
same terms as ships and merchandise of the United States.                   
-                                                                           
                            ARTICLE V                                       
-                                                                           
  The United States will, upon the signature of the present treaty,         
send back to Spain, at its own cost, the Spanish soldiers taken as          
prisoners of war on the capture of Manila by the American forces.           
The arms of the soldiers in question shall be restored to them.             
  Spain will, upon the exchange of the ratifications of the present         
treaty, proceed to evacuate the Philippines, as well as the island          
of Guam, on terms similar to those agreed upon by the Commissioners         
appointed to arrange for the evacuation of Porto Rico and other             
islands in the West Indies, under the Protocol of August 12, 1898,          
which is to continue in force till its provisions are completely            
executed.                                                                   
  The time within which the evacuation of the Philippine Islands and        
Guam shall be completed shall be fixed by the two Governments.              
Stands of colors, uncaptured war vessels, small arms, guns of all           
calibres, with their carriages and accessories, powder, ammunition,         
live stock, and materials and supplies of all kinds, belonging to           
the land and naval forces of Spain in the Philippines and Guam, remain      
the property of Spain. Pieces of heavy ordnance, exclusive of field         
artillery, in the fortifications and coast defences, shall remain in        
their emplacements for the term of six months, to be reckoned from the      
exchange of ratifications of the treaty; and the United States may, in      
the meantime, purchase such material from Spain, if a satisfactory          
agreement between the two Governments on the subject shall be reached.      
-                                                                           
                           ARTICLE VI                                       
-                                                                           
  Spain will, upon the signature of the present treaty, release all         
prisoners of war, and all persons detained or imprisoned for political      
offences, in connection with the insurrections in Cuba and the              
Philippines and the war with the United States.                             
  Reciprocally, the United States will release all persons made             
prisoners of war by the American forces, and will undertake to              
obtain the release of all Spanish prisoners in the hands of the             
insurgents in Cuba and the Philippines.                                     
  The Government of the United States will at its own cost, return          
to Spain, and the Government of Spain will at its own cost, return          
to the United States, Cuba, Porto Rico, and the Philippines, according      
to the situation of their respective homes, prisoners released or           
caused to be released by them, respectively, under this article.            
-                                                                           
                          ARTICLE VII                                       
-                                                                           
  The United States and Spain mutually relinquish all claims for            
indemnity, national and individual, of every kind, of either                
Government, or of its citizens or subjects, against the other               
Government, that may have arisen since the beginning of the late            
insurrection in Cuba and prior to the exchange of ratifications of the      
present treaty, including all claims for indemnity for the cost of the      
war.                                                                        
  The United States will adjudicate and settle the claims of its            
citizens against Spain relinquished in this article.                        
-                                                                           
                         ARTICLE VIII                                       
-                                                                           
  In conformity with the provisions of Articles I, II, and III of this      
treaty, Spain relinquishes in Cuba, and cedes in Porto Rico and             
other islands in the West Indies, in the island of Guam, and in the         
Philippine Archipelago, all the buildings, wharves, barracks, forts,        
structures, public highways and other immovable property which, in          
conformity with law, belong to the public domain, and as such belong        
to the Crown of Spain.                                                      
  And it is hereby declared that the relinquishment or cession, as the      
case may be, to which the preceding paragraph refers, cannot in any         
respect impair the property or rights which by law belong to the            
peaceful possession of property of all kinds, of provinces,                 
municipalities, public or private establishments, ecclesiastical or         
civic bodies, or any other associations having legal capacity to            
acquire and possess property in the aforesaid territories renounced or      
ceded, or of private individuals, of whatsoever nationality such            
individuals may be.                                                         
  The aforesaid relinquishment or cession, as the case may be,              
includes all documents exclusively referring to the sovereignty             
relinquished or ceded that may exist in the archives of the Peninsula.      
Where any document in such archives only in part relates to said            
sovereignty, a copy of such part will be furnished whenever it shall        
be requested. Like rules shall be reciprocally observed in favor of         
Spain in request of documents in the archives of the islands above          
referred to.                                                                
  In the aforesaid relinquishment or cession, as the case may be,           
are also included such rights as the Crown of Spain and its                 
authorities possess in respect of the official archives and records,        
executive as well as judicial, in the islands above referred to, which      
relate to said islands or the rights and property of their                  
inhabitants. Such archives and records shall be carefully preserved,        
and private persons shall without distinction have the right to             
require, in accordance with law, authenticated copies of the                
contracts, wills and other instruments forming part of notarial             
protocols or files, or which may be contained in the executive or           
judicial archives, be the latter in Spain or in the islands aforesaid.      
-                                                                           
                           ARTICLE IX                                       
-                                                                           
  Spanish subjects, natives of the Peninsula, residing in the               
territory over which Spain by the present treaty relinquishes or cedes      
her sovereignty, may remain in such territory or may remove therefrom,      
retaining in either event all their rights of property, including           
the right to sell or dispose of such property or of its proceeds;           
and they shall also have the right to carry on their industry,              
commerce and professions, being subject in respect thereof to such          
laws as are applicable to other foreigners. In case they remain in the      
territory they may preserve their allegiance to the Crown of Spain          
by making, before a court of record, within a year from the date of         
the exchange of ratifications of this treaty, a declaration of their        
decision to preserve such allegiance; in default of which                   
declaration they shall be held to have renounced it and to have             
adopted the nationality of the territory in which they may reside.          
  The civil rights and political status of the native inhabitants of        
the territories hereby ceded to the United States shall be                  
determined by the Congress.                                                 
-                                                                           
                            ARTICLE X                                       
-                                                                           
  The inhabitants of the territories over which Spain relinquishes          
or cedes her sovereignty shall be secured in the free exercise of           
their religion.                                                             
-                                                                           
                           ARTICLE XI                                       
-                                                                           
  The Spaniards residing in the territories over which Spain by this        
treaty cedes or relinquishes her sovereignty shall be subject in            
matters civil as well as criminal to the jurisdiction of the courts of      
the country wherein they reside, pursuant to the ordinary laws              
governing the same; and they shall have the right to appear before          
such courts, and to pursue the same course as citizens of the               
country to which the courts belong.                                         
-                                                                           
                          ARTICLE XII                                       
-                                                                           
  Judicial proceedings pending at the time of the exchange of               
ratifications of this treaty in the territories over which Spain            
relinquishes or cedes her sovereignty shall be determined according to      
the following rules:                                                        
  (1) Judgments rendered either in civil suits between private              
individuals, or in criminal matters, before the date mentioned, and         
with respect to which there is no recourse or right of review under         
the Spanish law, shall be deemed to be final, and shall be executed in      
due form by competent authority in the territory within which such          
judgments should be carried out.                                            
  (2) Civil suits between private individuals which may on the date         
mentioned be undetermined shall be prosecuted to judgment before the        
court in which they may then be pending or in the court that may be         
substituted therefor.                                                       
  (3) Criminal actions pending on the date mentioned before the             
Supreme Court of Spain against citizens of the territory which by this      
treaty ceases to be Spanish shall continue under its jurisdiction           
until final judgment; but, such judgment having been rendered, the          
execution thereof shall be committed to the competent authority of the      
place in which the case arose.                                              
-                                                                           
                         ARTICLE XIII                                       
-                                                                           
  The rights of property secured by copyrights and patents acquired by      
Spaniards in the Island of Cuba, and in Porto Rico, the Philippines         
and other ceded territories, at the time of the exchange of the             
ratifications of this treaty, shall continue to be respected.               
Spanish scientific, literary and artistic works, not subversive of          
public order in the territories in question, shall continue to be           
admitted free of duty into such territories, for the period of ten          
years, to be reckoned from the date of the exchange of the                  
ratifications of this treaty.                                               
-                                                                           
                          ARTICLE XIV                                       
-                                                                           
  Spain shall have the power to establish consular officers in the          
ports and places of the territories, the sovereignty over which has         
been either relinquished or ceded by the present treaty.                    
-                                                                           
-                                                                           
                           ARTICLE XV                                       
-                                                                           
  The Government of each country will, for the term of ten years,           
accord to the merchant vessels of the other country the same treatment      
in respect of all port charges, including entrance and clearance dues,      
light dues, and tonnage duties, as it accords to its own merchant           
vessels, not engaged in the coastwise trade.                                
  This article may at any time be terminated on six months' notice          
given by either Government to the other.                                    
-                                                                           
-                                                                           
-                                                                           
                          ARTICLE XVI                                       
-                                                                           
  It is understood that any obligations assumed in this treaty by           
the United States with respect to Cuba are limited to the time of           
its occupancy thereof; but it will upon the termination of such             
occupancy, advise any Government established in the island to assume        
the same obligations.                                                       
-                                                                           
                         ARTICLE XVII                                       
-                                                                           
  The present treaty shall be ratified by the President of the              
United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate             
thereof, and by her Majesty the Queen Regent of Spain; and the              
ratifications shall be exchanged at Washington within six months            
from the date hereof, or earlier if possible.                               
-                                                                           
  In faith whereof, we, the respective Plenipotentiaries, have              
signed this treaty and have hereunto affixed our seals.                     
-                                                                           
  Done in duplicate at Paris, the tenth day of December, in the year        
of Our Lord one thousand eight hundred and ninety-eight.                    
-                                                                           
    [SEAL.]                                WILLIAM R. DAY                   
    [SEAL.]                                CUSHMAN K. DAVIS                 
    [SEAL.]                                WM. P. FRYE                      
    [SEAL.]                                GEO. GRAY                        
    [SEAL.]                                WHITELAW REID                    
