                                      1765                                  
                                                                            
                         AMERICAN HISTORICAL DOCUMENTS                      
                                                                            
                             DECLARATION OF RIGHTS                          
                                                                            
  The members of this congress, sincerely devoted, with the warmest         
sentiments of affection and duty to his majesty's person and                
government, inviolably attached to the present happy establishment          
of the protestant succession, and with minds deeply impressed by a          
sense of the present and impending misfortunes of the British colonies      
on this continent; having considered, as maturely as time will permit,      
the circumstances of the said colonies, esteem it our indispensable         
duty to make the following declarations of our humble opinion,              
respecting the most essential rights and liberties of the colonists,        
and of the grievances under which they labour, by reason of several         
late acts of parliament.                                                    
  1. That his majesty's subjects in these colonies, owe the same            
allegiance to the crown of Great Britain, that is owing from his            
subjects born within the realm, and all due subordination to that           
august body the parliament of Great Britain.                                
  2. That his majesty's liege subjects in these colonies, are entitled      
to all the inherent rights and liberties of his natural born subjects,      
within the kingdom of Great Britain.                                        
  3. That it is inseparably essential to the freedom of a people,           
and the undoubted right of Englishmen, that no taxes be imposed on          
them but with their own consent, given personally, or by their              
representatives.                                                            
  4. That the people of these colonies are not, and, from their             
local circumstances, cannot be, represented in the House of Commons in      
Great Britain.                                                              
  5. That the only representatives of the people of these colonies,         
are persons chosen therein by themselves; and that no taxes ever            
have been, or can be constitutionally imposed on them, but by their         
respective legislatures.                                                    
  6. That all supplies to the crown being free gifts of the people, it      
is unreasonable and inconsistent with the principles and spirit of the      
British constitution, for the people of Great Britain to grant to           
his majesty the property of the colonists.                                  
  7. That trial by jury, is the inherent and invaluable right of every      
British subject in these colonies.                                          
  8. That the late act of parliament, entitled, an act for granting         
and applying certain stamp duties, and other duties, in the British         
colonies and plantations in America, &c., by imposing taxes on the          
inhabitants of these colonies, and the said act, and several other          
acts, by extending the jurisdiction of the courts of admiralty              
beyond its ancient limits, have a manifest tendency to subvert the          
rights and liberties of the colonists.                                      
  9. That the duties imposed by several late acts of parliament,            
from the peculiar circumstances of these colonies, will be extremely        
burdensome and grievous; and from the scarcity of specie, the               
payment of them absolutely impracticable.                                   
  10. That as the profits of the trade of these colonies ultimately         
center in Great Britain, to pay for the manufactures which they are         
obliged to take from thence, they eventually contribute very largely        
to all supplies granted there to the crown.                                 
  11. That the restrictions imposed by several late acts of parliament      
on the trade of these colonies, will render them unable to purchase         
the manufactures of Great Britain.                                          
  12. That the increase, prosperity and happiness of these colonies,        
depend on the full and free enjoyments of their rights and                  
liberties, and an intercourse with Great Britain mutually affectionate      
and advantageous.                                                           
  13. That it is the right of the British subjects in these                 
colonies, to petition the king, or either house of parliament.              
  Lastly, That it is the indispensable duty of these colonies, to           
the best of sovereigns, to the mother country, and to themselves, to        
endeavour by a loyal and dutiful address to his majesty, and humble         
applications to both houses of parliament, to procure the repeal of         
the act for granting and applying certain stamp duties, of all clauses      
of any other acts of parliament, whereby the jurisdiction of the            
admiralty is extended as aforesaid, and of the other late acts for the      
restriction of American commerce.                                           

