 Facts About Women

 1. Women love to shop.  It is the one area of the world where 
 they feel like they're actually in control.

 2. Women especially love a bargain.  The question of "need" is
 irrelevant, so don't bother pointing it out.  Anything on sale
 is fair game.

 3. Women never have anything to wear.  Don't question the 
 racks of clothes in the closet; you "just don't understand".

 4. Women need to cry.  And they won't do it alone unless they 
 know you can hear them.

 5. Women will always ask questions that have no right answer, 
 in an effort to trap you into feeling guilty.

 6. Women love to talk.  Silence intimidates them and they feel 
 a need to fill it, even if they have nothing to say.

 7. Women need to feel like there are people worse off than they 
 are. That's why soap operas and Oprah Winfrey-type shows are so 
 successful.

 8. Women don't need sex as often as men do.  This is because 
 sex is more physical for men and more emotional for women.  
 Just knowing that the man *wants* to have sex with them 
 fulfills the emotional need.

 9. Women hate bugs.  Even the strong-willed ones need a man 
 around when there's a spider or a wasp involved.

 10. Women can't keep secrets.  They eat away at them from the 
 inside.  And they don't view it as being untrustworthy, 
 providing they only tell two or three people.

 11. Women always go to public restrooms in groups.  It gives 
 them a chance to gossip.

 12. Women can't refuse to answer a ringing phone, no matter 
 what she's doing.  It might be the lottery calling.

 13. Women never understand why men love toys.  Men understand 
 that they wouldn't need toys if women had an "on/off" switch.

 14. Women think all beer is the same.

 15. Women keep three different shampoos and two different 
 conditioners in the shower.

 16. After a woman showers, the bathroom will smell like a 
 tropical rain forest.

 17. Women don't understand the appeal of sports.  Men seek 
 entertainment that allows them to escape reality.  Women seek 
 entertainment that reminds them of how horrible things *could* 
 be.

 18. If a man goes on a seven-day trip, he'll pack five days 
 worth of clothes and will wear some things twice; if a woman 
 goes on a seven-day trip she'll pack 21 outfits because she 
 doesn't know what she'll feel like wearing each day.

 19. Women brush their hair *before* bed.

 20. Watch a woman eat an ice cream cone and you'll have a 
 pretty good idea about how she'll be in bed.

 21. Women are paid less than men, except for Modeling.

 22. Women are *never* wrong. Apologizing is the mans 
 responsibility, "It's there in the bible". hmmm who was it 
 that gave Adam the apple?

 23. Women do *not* know anything about cars. "Oil-stick, oil 
 doesn't stick?"

 24. Women have better restrooms. They get the nice chairs and 
 red carpet.

 25.  The average number of items in a typical woman's bathroom 
 is 437.  A man would not be able to identify most of these 
 items.

 26. Women love cats.  Men say they love cats, but when women 
 aren't looking, men kick cats.

 27. Women love to talk on the phone.  A woman can visit her 
 girlfriend for two weeks, and upon returning home, she will 
 call the same friend and they will talk for three hours.

 28. A woman will dress up to go shopping, water the plants, 
 empty the garbage, answer the phone, read a book, or get the 
 mail.

 30. Women will drive miles out of their way to avoid the 
 possibility of getting lost using a shortcut.

 31. Women do NOT want an honest answer to the question, 'How do 
 I look?'

 32. PMS stands for: Permissible Man-Slaughter.  (Or at least 
 men think it means that. PMS also stands for Punish My Spouse.

 33. The first naked man woman see is "Ken".

 36.  Women will make three right-hand turns to avoid making one 
 left-hand turn.

 37.  "Oh, nothing," has an entirely different meaning in 
 woman-language than it does in man-language.

 38.  Lewis Carroll's Caterpillar had nothing on women.

 39. Women cannot use a map without turning the map to 
 correspond to the direction that they are heading.

 40a  All women are overweight by definition, don't argue with 
 them about it.

 40b  All women are overweight by definition, don't agree with 
 them about it.

 41. If it is not Valentines day, and you see a man in a flower 
 shop, you can probably start up a conversation by asking, "What 
 did you do?"

 42. Women want equal rights, but you rarely hear them clamoring 
 to be let into the draft to cover the responsibilities that go 
 with those rights.

 43. Only women understand the reason for "guest towels" and the 
 "good china".

 46. Women can get out of speeding tickets by pouting.  This 
 will get men arrested.

 47. Women don't really care about a sense of humor in a guy 
 despite  claims to the contrary.  You don't see womens 
 trampling over Tom Cruise to get to Gilbert Gottfried do you?


