RELEASE OF SATAN SOFTWARE TOOL
FACT SHEET

INTRODUCTION

Due to extensive media attention regarding the release of another version 
of SATAN (Security Administrator Tool for Analyzing Networks), the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) is issuing this fact sheet to
answer questions about SATAN. 

WHAT IS SATAN?

SATAN is a software tool for assessing Internet host and network security.  
SATAN tests host systems to determine which Internet services are present 
and whether those services are misconfigured or contain vulnerabilities that
an intruder could exploit.  SATAN provides limited information on how to 
correct the vulnerabilities it identifies as well as a modest tutorial on 
host system security.  SATAN can test individual hosts or entire networks 
of host systems. SATAN is an analysis and reporting tool only and does not 
break into systems or exploit new and/or rare vulnerabilities.  All the 
vulnerabilities it finds are well known and have either bulletins and/or 
patches from an incident response team or a vendor. However, as with most 
tools of this type not just system administrators but intruders will 
undoubtedly use SATAN to find vulnerabilities in certain systems and then 
they will exploit those systems.  Thus, while the tool aids a conscientious 
security-aware administrator it does increase the risk to the unwary 
administrator.

SATAN'S AVAILABILITY

SATAN's authors, Mr. Dan Farmer and Mr. Wietse Venema, made SATAN widely 
available over the Internet without cost starting April 5, 1995.  Many 
Internet sites now have SATAN and thousands of copies have been
distributed worldwide.

WHAT IS REQUIRED TO RUN SATAN?

SATAN runs on specially-configured UNIX systems and can be configured so 
that only users with system-level privileges or root privileges may execute 
the software.  The first release of SATAN runs only on UNIX systems
made by Sun Microsystems and Silicon Graphics.   Ports to other UNIX 
systems such as Linux have followed quickly.  SATAN requires installation 
of additional software and World Wide Web (WWW) client programs such
as Mosaic.  It is important, however, to distinguish between systems that 
execute SATAN and those that SATAN can scan.  SATAN can be used to scan 
many different vendor systems and, furthermore, could be modified to probe
routers and other networked devices.

WHY IS SATAN CONTROVERSIAL?

As stated earlier, SATAN is controversial because conscientious system and
network administrators and would-be hackers or intruders are both helped.  
Administrators who have both time and the capability to use and understand 
SATAN and its  findings will clearly close up the holes or vulnerabilities 
in their systems.  However,  many system administrators are often 
ill-equipped or equipped but over-burdened, and thus are quite vulnerable 
to intruders who run SATAN against them.   A typical hacker will scan a 
site for vulnerabilities with a tool like SATAN, find some systems 
vulnerable, and then install trojanized login programs (permit access by 
legitimate users but steals their passwords and system Ids) or  sniffer 
programs that silently sniff legitimate user passwords and Ids for later
illegitimate use.   Several computer security incident response teams report 
that internal testing for vulnerabilities indicates that very high 
percentages of Internet host systems are vulnerable to tools like SATAN.  
As a consequence, some incident response teams and others in the Internet 
community have and are writing detectors to note when SATAN is being used 
to scan their systems. 

IS SATAN OVERBLOWN? 

As we saw in the Michelangelo Virus furor that erupted a few years ago, 
our fear and the attendant hype outstripped the actual damage caused.   
Part of the issue here is our attention span.  Clearly, viruses are very 
real and can and do cause much mayhem even if the damage occurs after the 
press and management focus moves on to other issues. Similarly, the 
vulnerabilities that SATAN identifies are real and exploitable but won't 
evidence themselves in a sudden series of attacks days or hours after the 
SATAN release.   However, with thousands of copies freely available
and in use SATAN will make an impact.  It won t aid the knowledgeable 
intruder who is already aware of how to break in but it will assist the 
less than gifted would-be intruder.  As these thousands of copies coarse 
throughout the Internet, we and the computer security community will be in 
a better position to assess the real impact of SATAN and whether the 
initial hysteria was founded after about 6 months of perspective is gained.

DOES SATAN IDENTIFY NEW VULNERABILITIES?

No,  all the vulnerabilities it finds are well known and have either 
bulletins and/or patches from an incident response team or a vendor.

HOW IS SATAN DIFFERENT FROM OTHER SECURITY TOOLS?

Tools similar to SATAN have been available to Internet users for several 
years, both commercially and in the public-domain.  These tools are also 
used by the intruder community to identify systems vulnerable to attack.  
SATAN is different in that it can be configured to test virtually any 
system or network of systems accessible to the Internet.  SATAN is also 
more powerful than previous tools and able to identify more vulnerabilities. 
SATAN can discover whether a system trusts connections from other systems, 
and then scan those systems.  SATAN's WWW interface is easy to use and its 
results are easy to view. Additionally, SATAN can be modified easily to 
exploit new vulnerabilities.

ADVICE FOR SYSTEM AND NETWORK MANAGERS

Sites should be concerned that internal users as well as intruders could 
run SATAN and expose site vulnerabilities. Thus, NIST recommends the 
following:
- sites should develop policies for using SATAN responsibly and efficiently,
- sites should promptly correct all vulnerabilities before vulnerable systems 
  could be attacked,
- sites should look-out for illicit scans of their networks by SATAN or 
  other tools, and 
- system managers should install access control software to ensure scans of 
  their systems by SATAN will be noticeable and consider installing SATAN 
  detector software developed by incident response teams.

Sites should also improve their network and host security policies and 
measures.  Sites should consider installing firewall systems so that 
internal systems are easier to manage and less vulnerable to attacks. Sites 
should install all vendor patches and subscribe to vendor and incident 
response team mailing lists so that they will be notified of future
patches or vulnerabilities.  Sites should develop policy for network usage, 
Internet access, and incident reporting.  It is very important that sites 
improve system management by allotting sufficient time for system 
administration duties and training as necessary.  Lastly, when purchasing 
systems, sites should demand security features and properly install and 
configure new systems and periodically recheck old systems.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION

NIST operates a clearinghouse of computer security information and tools 
accessible via the Internet and dial-in at all times.  The clearinghouse 
contains links to information about computer security and incident response 
team clearinghouses.  Together, these sites provide basic and detailed 
computer security information, vulnerability and
threat assessments, incident response team alerts, vendor patches, and 
computer security tools including firewalls and pointers to vendors.  The 
clearinghouse is accessible via the following methods:

WWW: http://csrc.ncsl.nist.gov
ftp: csrc.ncsl.nist.gov, login as "anonymous"
email: send message "send INDEX" to docserver@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov
dial-in: 301-948-5717


