
=========
ADDITIVES
=========

  Harmful additives are a formidable weapon against machinery, people, and
processes.  Additives perform one or more of the following:

  1) Corrosion...sulfuric acid, for example, will corrode the gutter, eaves,
     and downspout of a home; dumped salt will mar a building surface or floor
     and kill a lawn.

  2) Contamination...copper salts will rot rubber products; soap in a public or
     corporate fountain will create giant foam.  Or put it in a steam boiler if
     you're more serious about the matter.

  3) Abrasion...introduction of light, coarse materials, such as resins, to
     automotive fuel, or metal filings placed in the gears of industrial
     machinery, will create frictional havoc.

  4) Impurities...adding sugar to gasoline greates harmful carbon from the
     burning sugar, stopping the engine.

  Soaps and detergents make wonderful additions to food and could even be
beneficial if the target happens to be constipated.  If not, then soap-laden
munchies or drinks will really keep him moving.

  During my stay as an invited guest of Uncle Sam I recall some dirty
tricksters' making an action statement against being in KP.  They liberally
coated various pans and cooking vessels with GI soap.  They washed mugs with a
lot of soap, then neglected to rinse them before letting the utensils dry.
Later, when some drinkable potion like milk or coffee was poured into the mug
by some unsuspecting mark, the soap was activated.  Whoosh!

  Soap is also a very effective additive to containers in which food is
prepared.  The secret is to disguise the taste.  Various other additives will
do that and other tricks.

  A horny old pharmacist, Doctor Frank Pittlover, claims there really is a
working aphrodisiac.  His is almost as esoteric as the fake stuff you read
about in men's magazines.  Here's what Doctor Pittlover says:  "It's known as
yohimmbine hydrochloride (C21, H23, O3N2), an obscure sex stimulant that
operates on the central nervous system.  It was the aphrodisiac used by the CIA
in their MK/ULTRA scam." It is not on the Central Substances Act list
--yet--and it is classed as a "veterinary aphrodisiac." That means you can get
it openly from a pharmaceutical supply source.  What you do with it after you
get it is probably your own business.

  There are other references to and uses of additives in many other topical
areas of your revenge...many more than could be indexed here.

  "Take tea and see" is a good advertising slogan that should also alert the
dirty trickster to some additives brought to our attention by herbal-tea
producers.  Two common products of many herbal teas have side effects that the
trickster could define only as delightful.  First, some teas contain the
leaves, flowers, and the bark of senna plant, a tropical shrub related to our
bean plant.  The dried leaves, bark, and flowers of this plant are a mighty
powerful laxative.  Chamomile flowers are also popular in herbal teas.  Related
to ragweed and goldenrod, chamomile can produce severe reactions in people
sensitive to plants of that family.

  The trick in both cases is to obtain extracts of both products and use them
in concentrated enough additive form to create the desired effect.

  Meanwhile, from the other end, Doctor Christopher Garwood Doyle has a
prescription that could really get amark moving.  Syrup of ipecac is a common
purgative, easily available.  Here's how Doctor Goyle uses it.

  "Your mark is with you or your agent somewhere having a few drinks," the
doctor outlines.  "Presumably, the mark is drinking something sweet and heavy,
like rum and Coke.  When the mark goes to the bathroom or is otherwise out of
the area, mix one tablespoon of syrup in ipecac in with the drink.

  "You now have a fifteen-minute waiting--or escaping, if you prefer-- period
for the mixture to get active.  After that, bombs away!  The mark will begin
violent projectile vomiting, which really messes up the nearby environment and
anyone else who happens to be the way.

  "We first did this in medical school, using to get back at a classmate who'd
turned us in to officials for having an after-hours party in our dorm with
women and booze.  They threw the book at us because we were supposed to be
mature medical students.

  "The student who did this fancied himself as a real boozer," Doctor Doyle
explained, "but he really was a hell of a hypocrite about it and really played
pious when he turned us in.  So we figured he who tattles about booze shall
also toss his booze."

  Doctor Doyle reports that this additive will work easily with non-alcoholic
drinks, too.  He says the secret is to select a carrier drink that will hide
the taste and consistency of the syrup.

  Another good remedy for a hotshot is cascara sagrada, made from the dried
root of a thorny shrub found on the American West Coast.  It produces violent
diarrhea.  Once, Joe Kascaba introduced some cascara sagranda into a mark's
orange juice.  The mark was with his girlfriend and her parents in their family
car.  He had the "juiced" orange juice about ten minutes before getting into
the car.

  Kascaba reminisced, "The stuff's fast acting, and we were lucky to have the
girlfriend's brother as our ally, to report the action.  It hit the mark about
six minutes into the trip, and in another minute he didn't even have time to
yell for them to pull over.  He just started letting go with loud, wet,
explosive bursts.

  "This is all in full witness of his girlfriend and her family in a tightly
packed auto.  He couldn't get stopped, either.  They took him to a hospital,
but by then the additive was through his system and the storm had subsided.
That surely is super powerful stuff."

  Kascaba explained why he had taken action this explosive action, saying, "The
guy was a real creep.  He was always trying to make out with other girls, and
since he wasn't very smooth, he used to get them drunk.  This was always with
other girls, of course--his regular girlfriend knew nothing about all of this.

  "Well, one night he pulled this crap on a friend of mine, got her drunk,
messed around...she got this feeling all guilty and emotional, then got sick
--puked, in fact.  He thought he was macho stuff and gave her hell for it.

  "We figured if he was going to act like such a shit...well, I'm sure you
understand...."

  The above trick is suggested to be used in such a place so that your mark can
not easily reach a bathroom within a few minutes after the attack hits.  This
will cause him to literally shit his pants and drip at the heels.

  As a final note, Kascaba says not to use this powerful additive with older
folks, because it weaken them to the point of very seroius medical
complications such as dehyrdration which may kill them.  Have some respect for
the elderly, think of your grandmother!

  The following trick is technically a substitution and not an additive:  I
know of one person who visited her mark's home and emptied the hair conditioner
out of his bottle, then poured Neet hair remover into the conditioner bottle.
She knew that Operation Substitute was a bald success when she saw her mark in
a local store several weeks later, wearing a large scarf on his head.

  Vinegar makes a great substitute for nose drops or in nasal-spray devices.
One especially nasty person also suggested it for use in eye drops.  I'm not
sure about that one though, sight's a precious thing.  You'd better reserve
that one for a very deserving person that shot your dog, wrecked your computer,
busted you for phreaking, etc.


========
AIRLINES
========

  Did an airline ever lose your luggage?  Veteran air traveler Dottie Hunte
suggests you return their favor and make yourself some money.  Here's her scam.
Arrange to have a friend meet you at the terminal gate when you deplane.  Give
your friend your baggage claim checks and have him/her retrieve your bags from
the carousel, then leave the baggage area with your luggage, be sure you get
your claims checks back.  Then you saunter over to the baggage area and spend
half an hour waiting for you bags.  Ask the clerk for some help, then report
your "missing" luggage, showing your claim checks as proof.

  "Very few flights have a clerk that actually check the baggage and collect
the claims checks," she says.  "It's foolish, but they don't."

  She suggests you "make a polite but firm scene and demand satisfaction.
Normally, the airline people will have you fill out a form, and they will
attempt to trace your luggage.  Obviously, they won't find it.  Bug them
some...write them letters.  Soon, you should get a good settlement from the
airline." Don't pull this one on the same airline more than once, Hunte
cautions.

  Leaving the airlines and aiming for individual mark, you can do a lot of
personal damage.  For instance, if you find that your mark is going to use
airline travel and there are only a few travel agents in town, you could call
until you find the correct one and cancel the reservations.  Or if you know the
name of the airline, call their office and cancel the mark's reservations.

  You might try to slip a couple of rounds of pistol ammunition or a
switchblade knife into your mark's pocket just before he goes through the metal
detector at the airport terminal.  You could also slip some drugs into his
pocket at the same time.  Read a book on pickpocketing to note the technique
for doing this.  It's quite easy since you are placing stuff back.

  Bill Cutcheon sometimes poses as a Moonie, Hare Krishna devotee, or other
cultist and goes to airports.  His goal is to act like a completely obnoxious
fool.  He really hams it up, usually getting tossed out after totally grossing
out the passengers.  The heat, of course, falls equally on the cults and on the
airport for letting "them" behave like that.

  Another Cutcheon stunt is to leave accurate-looking but totally bogus hijack
scenario plans, bomb diagrams, or orders for terrorists attacks in airport bars
and restrooms.  This fires up both the rent-a-cops and the real security
people.  The security delays and resultant hassles with passengers create
unhappy people who are angry at airports and airlines.

  Naturally, thew blame for these plans must focus on the original perpetrator
of Cutcheon's problems.  He says, "If some nut group's been hassling me for
money, messing in my neighborhood, or otherwise being obnoxious, I'll leave
evidence to pin the hijack or bomb rap on them.  I got back at a motorcycle
gang by doing this once, after they had sideswiped my truck and refused to pay
damages."

  He also explains that this is a good vengeance grabber against an airport
facility that has offended you.

  Mitch Egan of San Francisco doesn't like cultist panhandlers harassing people
at airports, so he founded the Fellowship to Resist Organized Groups Involved
in Exploitation, or FROGIE.  Egan and his friends use those little metal
clickers shaped like frogs to ward of religious solicitors.

  According to Egan, thousands of people across the country are now armed with
the little metal frogs, and when a religious panhandler approaches, they whip
out the clicker and "Click, click, click!" the pest away.

  "In San Francisco, I saw two hundred people clicking away at a Krishna," Egan
remarked.  "They blew her right out of her socks."

  He adds, "If God wants a dollar from me, he can ask for it.  I'm not against
religion, but I'm fed up with organized beggars."

  Relief is just a click away.

  I knew a chap who became annoyed at a Krishna who followed him out of the
Indianapolis airport, verbally abusing him for not making a contribution.
Having surreptitiously "armed and primed" himself, our hero suddenly stopped,
whipped around, and pissed all over the startled harridan.  After the few
necessary seconds of attack, he calmly replaced himself, zipped up, and walked
away.  A bemused security cop nearby tried to hide his laughter.


=======
ANIMALS
=======

  If your mark is an oily cuss with a credibility problem, you could easily
pull off this stunt suggested by good old country boy Emil Connally.  It
involves a cop, reporters, SPCA folk, and some farm animals.

  According to Connally, here's how it works.  You have two marks.  The prime
one is a farm owner with the credibility problem.  We'll call him Mr.  Big.
The secondary mark is a cop who's made an enemy of you.  In this case, pick one
of your local Attila the Hun cops, because he's a bully and his ego for a bust
will get in the way of his grain-sized brain.

  Call the cop--try for his home phone even if it's unlisted--and tell him you
know about a cock or dog fight that's being held at Mr.  Big's farm.  Explain
you have no morals against animal fighting (build your own macho image) but you
lost big money the last time and you think the fights are fixed.  Mention drugs
and booze, too.  Next, call Mr.  Big and tell him you're an anonymous political
ally who wants to warn him about some people holding dog or cock fights on his
farm.  Call reporters and the SPCA and tell them about the fight.  Tell them
that Mr.  Big and the cop have a payoff relationship.  Give everyone the same
general arrival time...never be too specific.

  If all goes well, all will sort of show up at roughly the same time.  You
might manipulate things so the press and animal lovers show up first.  Even if
a real story doesn't develop, you have scattered some strong seeds of distrust.

  There is a variation if you want a stronger story.  Kill and mutilate a dog
or rooster, then bury it for several days before you set up your animal-fight
scenario at Mr.  Big's place.  Tell the reporters and the SPCA where the
evidence is buried.  It will be fun to hear the two marks talk about these
things to the other parties.  Maybe there's a story here after all.

  Dead animals are so useful.  Don't you agree?  A nefarious lady known only as
Hong Kong Hattie once waited until her mark went to the airport to depart on a
business trip.  Then, using the nefarious methods for which she is so famous,
Hattie got to the mark's car in the airport parking lot and go the lock opened.
She then stuffed a large and very dead groundhog into the glove compartment.
Hattie then locked the car and strolled away.  Reportedly, the mark sold his
car at quite a financial loss just a few days after getting back from his
business trip.

  One of the plagues for newspaper deliverers is barking, biting dogs that
attack both kids and their bicycles.  Tom Frickert, today a newspaper magnate
but once a paperboy, has a solution.

  "A good-quality plastic water pistol filled with freshly squeezed lemon juice
is the ticket," Frickert says with a chuckle.  "You shoot the felanious furball
right in the eyes, and it'll soon stop the canine harassment.

  "I once shot a big, nasty cur with the juice, and he never bothered me
again...used to hide under his masters porch whenever I came down the sidewalk
to deliver the paper."

  If your neighbor's constantly yowling and howling dog bothers you,
congratulations, you're normal.  But unlike most who sit and suffer, you can
call the local SPCA and tell them how the neighbor mistreats the animal.  Hold
your phone near the window so the SPCA can hear the "evidence" right from the
source.

==========
APARTMENTS
==========

  Your mark lives in an apartment?  A squirt or so of Eastman 910 or a similar
type glue into the lock can screw up the mark's trying to get back into the
apartment after an evening on the town.  It's best to save this one until late
evening or on a weekend.  Of course, this same stunt would work on a house, but
an apartment lockout disturbance causes more of a public scene.

  If the mark's apartment is an older building with wooden door frames and you
can work quitly and quickly at night, you can lock him/her in the apartment
from the outside.  Quietly fix a hasp and keeper on the door and frame using
wooden screws.  Then slap a padlock on the new fixture.  It creates a great
deal of frustration if that door is the only way out of the apartment.  Do it
late Saturday night so the discovery is made on Sunday morning when it's
impossible to get help.

  Run a classified ad offering to sublet the mark's apartment.  You can list
either the mark's telephone number or that of his/her landlord.  As usual, make
the contact hour for very early in the morning "because of shift-work
schedule."

  You might want to make a "milk run" to the mark's apartment very early on
several mornings and place a whole bunch of empty booze bottles outside his or
her door.  This works well in ritzy apartments where the neighbors are snobs.
How do you get by the security people?  One way is to pose as a delivery
person, a service person, a building inspector, or someone on a work crew.  You
can also hire an accomplice in the building, or you can bribe the door guard.

  Suppose you are the victim of a nasty landlord who evicts you for no good
reason.  There are lots of legal ways to get your tenant's rights, but there
are also many quasi-legal and illegal ways that are much more fun.  For
example, you could simply "sublet" the place, on your own, to a bunch of
dopers, bikers, drunks, hookers, runaways, or twenty-four-hour party throwers.
Make this extracuricular subletting your going-away surprise.

  Another person I know went to the local animal shelter on several different
days and got a total of fifteen cats for twenty-five dollars.  He bought a
bunch of cat food and a bushel basket of fish, and filled his bathtub with
water for them.  He then nailed every window and door shut from the inside
before crawling out the tiny casement window in the basement.  He had
previously nailed the basement door shut behind him.  Obviously, he had moved
his things out several days previously.  His eviction notice was effective the
next day, but the landlord didn't check on the house for five days.  My God,
what a mistake that man made.  To say that that cat house was an uninhabitable
mess is an understatement.

  Tim Carroll was tossed out of his apartment by the landlady because one of
Tim's many lady friends stayed over for the whole entire evening.  This upset
the old biddy who owened the building, and being a staunch, God-fearing charter
member of the DAR, she canceled his lease and ordered him to leave the
building.

  Displeased with the abitrary and unilateral treatment and the upheaveal
caused by her dubious moral judgement, Tim didn't get angry; he got even.  He
had a trusted friend place a large sign in a hallway window of the landlady's
apartment building.  The seventh-floor window faced a busy business street, and
the sign was quite visible to many hundreds of people.

  The sign read:  TIM CARROLL SUCKS.

  The landlady didn't see the sign, so two days later, Tim's friend positioned
another sign, this time in a sixth-floor-hall window.

  The second sign read:  TIM CARROLL IS A FAG.

  The landlady saw both signs and removed them.  Two days later, she got a
letter from Tim, with a picture enclosed showing her building with the signs
easily visible.  The letter was Tim's complaint about personal slander and
harassment.  He asked her please to desist.

  Sometime early the next morning, in time for rush-hour morning traffic, a new
sign went up in the window:  TIM CARROLL BLOWS DEAD BEARS.

  At 8:30 A.M., the unsuspecting landlady recieved a call from an attorney
friend of Tim's, citing the original slander and warning the woman against
further incidents.  Shaken, she swore her innocence.  Ten minutes after hanging
up, he called back, sounding furious because Tim had just called him about the
latest sign.  Flabbergasted, the old lady swore she would remove it and loudly
proclaim her innocence.

  Another sign went up that afternoon in time for rush-hour the other way:  TIM
CARROLL IS A FLAMING HETEROSEXUAL.

  The landlady got the lawyer's call just after dark, when the sign was no
longer visible.  She was almost in tears because of his threats to sue.  She
begged to just talk to Tim, to tell him none of this was her doing.  The
attorney told her that he had advised his client to have no further discussions
with her.

  The next day's sign read:  FOR A GOOD LAY, CALL TIM CARROLL.

  That evening, a new sign went up.  The landlady, frantic, according to Tim's
friend who was putting up the signs, got to it fifteen minutes after it went
up.  The attorney called her five minutes after she got back to her own
apartment.

  Tim related, "You might feel almost sorry for the old lady, except that she
had told me earlier that she was going to keep my security deposit and that I
would have to forfeit the month's rent I had paid in advance because I had
violated the morality clause in my lease.  The was no such clause.  I found out
she had done this same thing to two other guys a year before and some guys
before that.  She also tossed out a couple because they weren't married.  She'd
come into your room when you were gone and snoop, too.  That bugged me."

  No signs went up for the next three days, although the woman checked the
windows every twenty minutes or so.  On the fourth day, hundreds of passersby,
accustomed to the signs weren't disappointed.

  The new sign read:  TIM CARROLL'S WHOREHOUSE.

  Although it took her an hour to discover and remove it, the lawyer friend of
Tim's didn't call until the next morning, when a new sign was in the window:
WHOREHOUSE UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT.  The landlady's telephone number was listed.

  A second sign was placed on the sixth-floor window underneath:  TIM CARROLL
COULDN'T BEAT THE COMPETITION.

  In his best tones, the attorney explained that enough was enough and that on
behalf of his client, Mr.  Carroll, he would be filing an action.  The woman
was distraught.  He told her to have her attorney present for a meeting at
three the following afternoon.  He asked her who her attorney was and said the
meeting should be in his office.  Tim and his attorney postponed this meeting
several times, then told the woman that since she had stopped putting up the
signs, they would hold the suit in limbo for the time.

  Reportedly, she monitored the halls and windows of that building regularly
for five months.  But more importantly, she also left her tenants to their own
moral lives.

=============
ASSASSINATION
=============

  Suppose you have a mark whose ill temper has created problems for you.  Or
perhaps this mark is simply an obnoxious nut whose obsessions have cost you
personally.  A dentist I know spent many unselfish hours working to get
flouride into his community's drinking water as a means of fighting tooth decay
in children.  An apolitical and highly dedicated professional, he was concerned
only with healthcare for the kids in the community.  A hyper, rightwing zealot
jumped on the issue and scared the town council with his insane babble.  He
claimed that flouride was a Communist plot to poison America's drinking water
and minds and that using flouride would lead to LSD as part of the
International Communist Conspiracy.  The timid council voted "no" on flouride.

  Beside himself, the young dentist said he surely would like to get back at
the rightwing firebrand but just didn't know what to do.  Sighing, he gave up
his fight and put his time back into his practice.  The kids never got their
flouride treatment, and as a result he had a lot of business.  It's too bad
that young dentist never met Maurice Bishop.

  In the hypocritical piety following the assassinations of the sixties,
physical security was supposedly tightened to protect the chief executive
chosen by the power brokers who now control the United States.  A former
law-enforcement official with a probable intelligence background offered an
astounding dirty trick related to this topic.  To protect this source's
identity we'll use the cover name of Maurice Bishop.

  Bishop says that the CIA, FBI and Secret Service all keep a list of nut
cases, radicals, and others who threaten political figures.  Often, these
people are jailed, kept under protective custody, or placed under
twenty-four-hour surveillance by autorities when poltical targets are in the
area.  Bishop's idea calls for theatening telegrams to be sent to the
politician in the mark's name.  At the very least this telegram will bring a
visit by one of the government agencies, and perhaps it will result in a bit of
jail time if the mark loses his/her cool as a result of this dirty trick.

  Bishop says this will also work with state officials, bringing a visit from
state police or some other law enforcement official.

============
AUTO DEALERS
============

  If an automobile dealership screws you, on either the car, the deal, or the
service, don't get angry--get even.  Wait outside the showroom until a
prospective customer starts talking to a salesperson about the same type of car
you got.  Walk right up to the customer and tell him you woeful story.  The
idea is to screw up as many sales as you can (it will cost the dealer at least
$5000 for each screw-up).  Be factual, be cool, and act as if you're an honest
citizen trying to save another honest citizen some money and heartache --as you
wish someone had done for you.  Sincere good faith is the thing here, because
the saleman is going to blow his about the second time you pull your act.

  When the manager asks you to leave and you don't, he will probably call the
police.  You had anticipated this earlier and alerted someone at the local
newspaper or television station--probably the action-line reporters.  Smalltown
media usually won't allow reporters to come--car dealers buy lots of ads, and
you don't.  A regional TV station may show up--if you promise a confrontation
with the law.  So when the manager calls the police, you call your TV
reporter--fun and games for the 6:00 P.M.  news.

  If all this doesn't work, wait off the dealer's premises and approach
customers as they leave the showroom.  Tell your story there and then.  Offer
to help them avoid your mistake.  But stay on public property.  And keep after
the action-line reporters.

  If you esculate the attack a bit, show up when the night salespeople are on
duty--they won't recognize you.  Look at new cars; wander around.  Few
salespeople pay much attention to an obvious gawker.  As soon as someone else
or a telephone distracts the salesperson, you can do things to the automobile
right there in the showroom.  A bottle opener is hard on the finish.  See the
file on additives for things you could quickly put into the fuel tank.  If you
could smuggle some in with you, stuff roadkill under a car seat or in the glove
compartment.  Or toss a condom (preferably used) on the front seat.  By the
way, used condoms make wonderful plants in other locations as well, like the
boss's desk, or in a customer's car back in the service shop.

  If you can manage to slip undetected into the service area along with your
bag of sabotage goodies, such as glue, wire cutters, paint, potatoes, M80s,
etc., you can run amok.  Work quietly and quickly.  This sort of guerrilla
warfare can literally wreck a dealer's service reputation.
