                                                ีออออออออออออออออออออออออธ
                                                ณ  Filename: 22BOMB.TXT  ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ Title: .22 Riot Bomb   ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ     By: Captain Hack   ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ   Released: 03/18/95   ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ   Danger: ฐฐ   ณ
                                                ิออออออออออออออออออออออออพ



   This is a nice one for mobs and riots. It will startle everyone in the
area and may even injur someone when it goes off. Probably not, but you
can't tell.

NOTE: THIS IS HYPOTHETICAL. IT SHOULD WORK. I HAVE *NEVER* TRIED IT. USE
*EXTREME* CAUTION IF YOU INTEND TO TRY THIS. WHICH YOU ARE *NOT* RECOMMENDED
TO DO!!!

   Materials
   ---
   .22 caliber round
   2" long piece of 1/4" copper pipe
   3/4" long 1/4" bolt

   Those are the materials for ONE bomb. Just repeat these for each one.
Screw the bolt into the pipe. They are the same size, so it may take a
little work. You can also use a Tap-And-Die set to thread the pipe if you
wish. ANyway, once finished, take this thing up a few floors. You have to
drop it. It cannot be thrown. 

To "arm" the device: Turn the pipe on its side, and GENTLY slide the bullet
into it. Until it touches the bolt. Now, holding the device upright, drop
it out the window, or off the roof. Don't worry, the bullet won't fall out.
As long as it is inside the pipe when it is dropped, it will be in there
when it hits the ground. You don't have to understand it, just accept it as
true. Also, afetr you drop it, I'd step back if I were you. Theoretically,
if you drop it and hold your hand in the exact position it was in when you
released the bomb, the bullet will fire and hit your hand. That's bad.

--hack
