                                                ีออออออออออออออออออออออออธ
                                                ณ  Filename: ANI.TXT     ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ Title: Call ANI!       ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ     By: Captain Hack   ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ   Released: 05/26/95   ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ   Danger: ฐฐฐฐฐฐฐฐฐฐ   ณ
                                                ิออออออออออออออออออออออออพ
Here is a generic ANI number that works from just about anywhere, I think.
BTW-- if you don't know, quick explination of ANI: ANI = Automatic Number
Identification, and is used by Telco linemen to determine what fone number
they are working on, when they're at a can (the big silver thing on the fone
pole). You pro'lly aren't supposed to use it, but what the hell...they don't
really care. I use it all the time, and telco doesn't bother me at all. Uses?
  
  Well, say you're getting a toar at IBM, and you come across a fone that's
attached to a modem. You know the modem would be much....fun, but if only
you knew the number....well, you wait till the toar guide is busy, and grab
the fone. Just dial 1-800-MY-ANI-IS, and listen. You'll hear a computer
generated voice say: "You're ANI is....(555) 555-1212" and then repeat.
  
  That particular situation will never happen to you unless you're lucky as
shit, but you get the idea. Good at school, work, banks, etc...it's almost
worth carrying a one-piece fone to hook up to the line for calling in case
there isn't a fone around....(hint, hint) I wish I had known that one at my
old high school. Much usefulness. In case you missed it, the ANI is:
1-800-MY-ANI-IS or 1-800-692-6447. Enjoy.

--hack

BTW-- If you'd like to join a mailing list to receive every new CH HPA file,
and of course be able to receive any archived file by request, then send
some email to: mccouchra@box102.cardinal.com . That is my email address, 
so if you have any questions, you can email me there too.
