                                                ีออออออออออออออออออออออออธ
                                                ณ  Filename: CARBOMBS.TXTณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ Title: Easy Carbombs   ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ     By: Captain Hack   ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ   Released: 03/18/95   ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ   Danger: ฐฐ   ณ
                                                ิออออออออออออออออออออออออพ



A few quick ways to send a car to the junk yard (and mentally FUCK the
owner):

1) This is THE classic car fucker: Pour about a cup of suger in the gas
   tank of the car. It seizes up the engine, and the car dies.

2) This is fun with little dangerous damage: Remove the rubber blades from
   the windsheild wipers, and replace them with thumb tacks. They usually
   slide right into the track that the blades were in. When the victim
   turns on the wipers, heh...heh heh heh....HAHAHAHAHAHA

3) This will honestly BLOW THE THING UP: Take a small medicine bottle. 
   Like the ones you get with a prescription drug. Not the locking ones,
   but the NON-child proof ones. Take one of those, and fill it with
   liquid Drano. Now, pop it into the gas tank of the offending vehicle.
   The gas eats away at the plastic bottle until the Drano leaks out...
   then BOOM!

4) This is sort of a variation of #1: But instead of using suger, try
   using those little styrofoam packing peanuts. They would be fun, since
   they mix with the gas, and the gas melts them into a thick gooey mess.
   I'm really not sure if this would just fill up the tank with SHIT, and
   the owner would have to refill the tank every 20 miles, or if it would
   actually get the stuff to the engine, in which case EVERYTHING would
   have to be replaced. The tank, the gas lines, the engine, everything.
   Fun either way.

5) This is pretty dangerous, so I don't really recommend it, but if you
   want to, go for it: This is sort of hard to explain, so unless you know
   exactly what I'm talking about, you shouldn't use this one. First, get
   a model rocket engine. Use a C or a D engine, as these are the largest
   (unless you can find an E or F, but they are rare). Now, with a pair of
   dikes, snip one of the wires going from the ignition circut (the key),
   to the battery. Either will do. I will not try to explain where they are
   or what they look like, since cars vary so much. Anyway, strip the two
   ends of the "new" wires, and wire the solar igniter from the engine in
   between the "new" wires. So it is spliced in like this:

------------------------------=====||=====-----------------------
   ^---wire from key to batt.   ^-----------leads from igniter

   Anyway, when the owner gets in and puts in the key, and turns it, the
   engine goes off under the hood. It might blow up, it might fly around
   and hit stuff, it might burst into flame. Hard to say. But it'll be
   fun. NOTE: You *could* do it in the cabin of the car, but I HIGHLY warn
   against it, as you could hurt or kill the person. And you're not trying
   to do that, you're just scaring him shitless, right?

--hack
