                                                ีออออออออออออออออออออออออธ
                                                ณ  Filename: MACEBALL.TXTณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ Title: Make Maceballs! ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ     By: Captain Hack   ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ   Released: 06/25/95   ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ   Danger: ฐฐฐฐฐ   ณ
                                                ิออออออออออออออออออออออออพ
Note: I've never actually tried this one, yet...but it should work, as I
know the materials.

If you're not one of the dubiously distinct one of us who owns a paintball
gun, then don't even worry about this file. It's of NO use to you. If you,
like I, do own a paintball gun, check this the fuck out:

Grab a paintball...note that there is a nice, liquidy paint inside. Now,
grab a seringe and needle (if you can't get one of those, improvise) and
gently stick the paintball. Pull out as much of the pain as you can. Don't
collapse the ball, or make overly-many holes in it. Once it's as empty as
it's gonna get, pull the seringe. Now, take a little container of Mace or
other tear gas, and draw some of that into the seringe. It's easiest to go
where there's no wind and, wearing gloves and a respirator, spray some in a
little canister. Stick the seringe needle back into the SAME hole you made
to get the stuff out. Fill the ball with mace, and slowly extract the
seringe. Now, put a small drop of super glue over the hole and let it dry.
   THE IMPORTANT PART IS THIS: Whie you can't overfill the ball, you must
make it as FULL AS YOU CAN, because after it's sealed with super-glue, the
positive pressure from the mace on the inside of the ball is going to be
what stops the ball from blowing up in the barrel of your gun.
   Now make about a dozen of these, and find some poor soul who needs to be 
in pain. Load up the mace balls in your gun...and SHOOT HIM. Talk about pain.
Maybe you could carry this in your car or something...the first 50 yd range
on a tear gas sprayer, eh?

--hack

BTW-- if you'd like to join a mailing list for future Captain Hack HPA files,
send some email to mccouchra@box102.cardinal.com and I'll mail you every new
CH HPA file. Expect a bunch soon, as I got a whole mess of ideas recently,
and I'm just startin' to write the files for 'em.
