                                                ีออออออออออออออออออออออออธ
                                                ณ  Filename: NUTBUST.TXT ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ Title: The Nut Buster  ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ     By: Captain Hack   ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ   Released: 08/10/95   ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ   Danger: ฐฐ   ณ
                                                ิออออออออออออออออออออออออพ
   Yeah, yeah, you've probably heard of this one too...boys and girls,
CH is really running short of ideas (well, I have a few left), and need your
help...send him ideas that you don't publish yourself...please? :)

1) Get a shotgun shell, and use a little duct tape to tape a BIG ass
   marble to the primer. Or you can get those big, white wrist-rocket shot.
   Those should be heavy enuff. Just make sure it weights the shotshell down.

2) Drop out a window (like a .22 bomb) or toss grenade
   style (UNlike a .22 bomb)

3) Duck

4) Laugh

BTW-- they call 'em nutbusters cause if you take out the shot (the little
pellets inside the shotshell), and toss 'em out a window during parades, they
can be amusing.

OH YEAH!!!: That's what I almost forgot...it's HIGHLY recommended that you
open up the shell, and dump out all the little lead balls. They are bad
cheese. If you do, they aren't that dangerous, just loud as shit. If you
choose to leave the shot in, then read my file on the shotgun shell mine, and
imagine that happening to anyone standing real close to where the thing
goes off. Could be handy, could be Murder 1. You decide.

--hack
