						ีออออออออออออออออออออออออธ
                                                ณ  Filename: SUICIDE.TXT ณ
						ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ Title: Suicide Guide   ณ
						ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
						ณ     By: Captain Hack   ณ
						ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ   Released: 10/09/95   ณ
						ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ   Danger:    ณ
						ิออออออออออออออออออออออออพ
   I guess this is the most dangerous file I've ever wriiten, since even
if you follow all directions to the letter, you still die. In fact, that's
the idea. First, let me stress this: I DO NOT BELIEVE THAT SUICIDE IS THE
ANSWER TO ANYTHING. I DON'T BELIEVE IN THE NOBILITY OF SUICIDE, NOR DO I
THINK IT IS EASIER TO KILL ONESELF THAN TO FACE THE PROBLEMS AND TRIALS OF
LIFE. Now that that's over with, down to the nitty-gritty. How to kill your-
self!

NOTE: Some info in this file has been taken without permission from the book
FINAL EXIT, a complete guide to euphenasia.

1) FIREARMS
      Firearms are the cause of death for more than 60% of male suicide
deaths each year. They are often thought to be the most sure way of commiting
suicide, and the easiest. This is also the messiest way, and the most diff-
icult for family members to cope with. It may not neccisarily be the most
error free form of suicide, either. If you are planning to use a firearm, be
sure it is at LEAST a .38 or .357 caliber, as anything smaller may not cause
death, and then you're stuck a veggie. Also, the preferred way to blow you
brains out is by putting the barrel of the gun in your mouth, pointed up at
the base of your brain. You could also do a Cobain and use a shotgun. That is
just as effective :)

2) SLASHING WRISTS
        This is actually not as painful as one might think. As long as you
use a sharp blade, it can be quite effective. First, get a large pan or bowl
and fill it with VERY cold water and ice cubes. LOTS of ice. Sit your fore-
arm in it for about 1 hour, or until your arm is COMPLETELY numb. Now, get a
sharp knife, such as a ginsu or your mom's best carving blade, if you don't
have a suitable one. Otherwise use one of those razor util knives, and extend
the blade to full length. Make three cuts.
                a) At the transition of your wrist into your hand, right
                   across.
                b) At a 45๘ angle starting from the left point of the first
                   cut. Go from upper-left to lower-right (if it's your left)
                c) From close to the center of the wrist, cut straight down
                   your arm, as far as possible without causing yourself pain

This has the effect of severing the many arteries in your arm, with no hope
of a blood clot or similar effect. You probably have about 6-10 minutes after
doing this, so do it during the Simpsons or something so you can laugh for the
final 10 minutes of your life.

3) CYANIDE
        Cyanide is a very controverial substance. According to different acc-
ounts, death by cyanide ingestion can be quick and painless (12 sec.) or long
drawn out and unbearably painful (4 or 5 days of writhing pain). It is essent-
ially unpredicatble, but death is almost certain in any situation. Cyanide
can be obtained from peach pits, although I am unsure of the exact process
right now (look for an upcoming CH HPA)
        Here are directions for one form of cyanide:
        1. Take a small glass of cold TAP WATER (it has the proper pH)
        2. Stir 1.0 to 1.5 g KCN (potassium cyanide) into the water
        3. After about 5 minutes, the KCN is dissolved and ready to drink
        4. After drinking, you will lose consiuosness in about 1 minute
        5. Death will follow the coma in 15 to 45 minutes.

4) INJECTION
        The key to injecting anything is being able to use a seringe. I will
assume you know how to do this. It is important that all substances I will
describe here be injected into a VEIN, not an ARTERY. This way they will be
re-distributed thru the heart when the blood reaches the heart.
        A) AIR
                Injection of a LARGE amount of air into the blood stream will
                cause cardiac arrest in the victim. The only problem is the
                amount of air that's needed. Close to 40 CC's is required.
                Death is fairly painless, and reasonably fast.

        B) DISTILLED WATER
                I believe this will work, although I am not positive. You
                would probably have to inject the better part of a whole
                bottle of water, like Evian. I don't know about the death.

        C) IODINE
                This is used in China to kill newborn babies. You can use
                either Iodine or Rubbing Alchohol. 20 to 40 CC's should
                ensure rapid death.

        D) NICOTINE
                See my file on making pure nicotine syrup, or one of the
                files in the Jolly Roger Cookbook. Since a few drops ingested
                will cause swift death, I would think that 2-3 CC's directly
                injected should make quick work of you. Be aware that once
                it is injected you will be stoned out of your mind for the
                few (5-10?) minutes before death.

5) PLASTIC BAG
        This is usually used as extra insurence, and should be used with any
        method that involves OD'ing on anything, because this is a failproof
        way to commit suicide. Take a mid sized plastic bag. Not one small
        enough that you'd choke on it, cause that just sucks. Use one that
        is fairly large, but not one that would take forever to fill. Maybe
        a shopping bag or something. Put it on your head and take 2 rubber
        bands and secure it around your neck. The effect is simple. You will
        eventually (1-2 hrs) use up all the Oxygen in the bag. As you run
        low, you will just get sleepy, and fall asleep, and never wake up.

Drug List:
        The following table shows some of the most popular prescription drugs
        and the requirments to kill yourself. All of the pills should be
        taken with alchohol, as this increases the intensity of the drugs.


Generic Name          Trade Name           Lethal Dose         #/tablets
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Flurazepam              Dalamane                3g              100*30mg
Chloral Hydrate         Noctec                  10g             20*500mg
Meprobamate             Miltown, Equanil        45g             112*400mg
Meperidine              Demerol                 3.6g            72*50mg
Morphine                ---                     200mg           14*15mg
Secobarbital            Seconal (sleep agent)   4.5g            45*100mg
Propoxyphene            Darvon (NOT DARVOCET)   2.0g            30*65mg

The best way to take these is to grind up about 3/4 of them and put them in
a yogurt or pudding. Sweeten it with suger to offset the taste. First take
the other 1/4 of them with a glass of wine. Then eat the yogurt with a fair
amount of speed. Then wash it all down with some scotch, wiskey, or other
hard liquor.


Fatal Liquids:

This mixture will work well and be fatal with extreme speed (several
minutes)

Pentobarbital sodium    9g
Alcohol                 20ml
Purified Water          15ml
Propylene glycol        10ml
Orange Syrup            50ml

(Secobarbital sodium can be substituted for the Pentobarbital sodium if
neccesary)

--hack
