                                                ีออออออออออออออออออออออออธ
                                                ณ  Filename: VULCAN.TXT  ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ Title: Vulcan Grenade  ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ     By: Captain Hack   ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ   Released: 08/07/95   ณ
                                                ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออต
                                                ณ   Danger: ฐฐฐฐ   ณ
                                                ิออออออออออออออออออออออออพ
I know you've ALL heard this one before, but, since every other anarchist in
the known world has written a phile (mmm..nostalge) on this one, I might as
well too.

Shopping list:

1 CO2 cylinder (from a BB gun)
1 "D" size model rocket engine (or 3-4 "C"s)
Several inches of control fuse
an icepick or awl
superglue is handy, elec tape will work

Empty the CO2 cylinder. I don't give a shit how. Pop it with a nail, use it
in your BB gun. Sumtin. Use the awl/icepick to open the hole in the neck as
wide as you can. Now, crush up the rocket engine (see my file called
POLUMNA.TXT for details on rocket powder [my favorite low order ordinance])
and fill the cylinder. If you can find a funnel of the right size, consider
yourself BLESSED (and tell me where to get one). Else find some other way to
get the powder in the thing. At least 3/4 of the way full. Now, get a good
amount of fuse (NOT firecracker fuse. YOU WILL KILL YOURSELF). Control fuse
is best. About 4-6 seconds is enuff. Shove that length (plus 1/2" for good
measure) into the cylinder. Add a drop of superglue around the fuse, or give
it a few wraps with black elec tape.
        Note: If you use the rocket powder described above, it will sound
easily like a 1/4 stick, and blow dirt around WELL, but not shrapnel much.
It will just blow the CO2 cylinder open. If you want shrapnel, use Black
Powder. It's even louder then, too, but you have a 15 yrd killing radius,
where everything goes down at knee level...

--hack
