                  Tipler's "Physics of Immortality"

         Rant / Review by John Walker -- kelvin@fourmilab.ch
                           October 26, 1994

I just finished Frank Tipler's "The Physics of Immortality", (1994:
ISBN 0-385-46798-2) which I'd really looked forward to reading ever
since I heard it was out, and my reaction is...*ouch*--what a
disappointment!  Nothing prepared me for just how B-A-D it is.

First of all, the exquisite heaviness of writing.  Other than the
first chapter, I really admired Barrow and Tipler's "Anthropic Cosmic
Principle", and now I guess it's clear how much of the actual
wordcraft in that volume was the work of Barrow (this is also apparent
when one compares POI with Barrow's recent solo outing "Pi in the
Sky").  At least in ACP all the fumbling through ancient and modern
theories of philosophy was confined to the first chapter.  Here it's
interleaved with what purports to be the scientific argument.  I wish
he'd put it into an "Appendix for Poets" or something.  Suppose you
grant all the essentials of his substantive argument.  Then who could
conceivably care how much it resembles or doesn't resemble various
myths of antiquity and/or philosophical schools?  And if you don't
accept his scientific reasoning, is it rational that its resemblance
to various common myths should give it additional credence?  He says
himself, near the end, that it shouldn't.  So if not, Frank, why not
spare us the 150 pages of turgid prose devoted to that stuff?

But this is style.  On to the substance.

I don't have any trouble at all imagining nanotechnology, von Neumann
probes, AI exceeding human intelligence within 50 years, or the
biosphere expanding to fill the entire galaxy and eventually the
universe.  Given the nature of life, I'd say it's inevitable unless
the seeds of life in the universe are sufficiently rare that random
extinction events wipe the slate clean before the process compounds
into geometric expansion.  But none of that is new, and Tipler tells
it less clearly than others already have.

But it's a long way from the Antipodal Galaxy to the Omega Point, and
it's on that road where, unless I'm missing something, the wheels fall
off Starship Eternity.  Reading through the main text, I noted many
apparent gaping holes in his arguments or assumptions of facts
contrary to the best available knowledge, all made without the
slightest discussion of the issues involved.  I hoped that these would
be covered in the "Appendix for Scientists" and, indeed, many are
discussed.  And virtually all are dismissed with the all-purpose
argument: "That is ruled out by the Omega Point Boundary Condition."
Look at this one, on page 505, "Thus the worry ... that quantum
fluctuations would necessarily wipe out life at a final singularity is
obviated with the Omega Point Boundary Condition, because in this case
the universe continues to exist *because* life itself does; quantum
fluctuations large enough to destroy life cannot occur because they
are prevented by the boundary condition from forming."

Well now I feel a lot better.  Really.  Here, I was worried about just
how life would continue to process information, not to mention at an
exponentially diverging rate, as not only atoms and subatomic
particles were dissociated but spacetime started to let go at the
Planck temperature but...not to worry, the OPBC comes to the rescue
and *forces* physics to obey.  What's more, why worry about a big rock
hitting the Earth, destruction of the biosphere by inadvertent human
action, accidental nuclear war, etc. etc.?  Surely the Boundary
Condition rules out those much smaller worries as well.  Don't worry;
be happy.

Then there's the problem about not being able to make up his mind just
how the information will be reconstituted that will allow the precise
resurrection of the dead.  Several times he flip-flops, here saying
that since all world lines converge on the Omega Point, no information
has been lost (the black holes having been popped by a semi-mystical
process about which more later), and there admitting that opacity and
thermalisation of information may present a bit of a problem after all
but, hey, we'll just get out the old soldering gun and conjure up a
computer with a storage capacity of 10^10^70 bits, which lets us
simulate all possible quantum states of all possible humans, and to
Hell with the lost information since it's in there somewhere by
exhaustive enumeration.  Uhhh, well, maybe that isn't enough, so
to be safe (p. 225) "...it might be necessary to replicate the entire
visible universe.  But, as I showed above, all possible visible
universes can be replicated down to the quantum state if the computer
capacity is at least 10^10^123 bits.  In the far future, the universal
computer capacity will be far, far above this."

Are we giggling yet?

Ok, the visible universe has around 10^80 particles in it.  The
universe at Tipler's point of maximum expansion is, say, 10,000 times
bigger (he's cagy about the number, mentioning 3000 only for an
intermediate stage).  So, cube 10,000 and we get 10^12.  Which,
multiplied by 10^80 gives us 10^92.  Hmmmmm.  That's quite a bit
smaller than 10^10^70, not to mention 10^10^123.  But, you see, we're
not using mere matter to store bits anymore.  We're using (drumroll)
the Higgs field, just as we're twiddling the Higgs field to make the
whole bloody universe collapse asymmetrically, with the whole universe
becoming a delay line memory.  And when will this happen?  Also on p.
225, "between 10^-10^10 and 10^-10^123 seconds before the Omega Point
is reached".  Whew, saved by the Gong of Doom.

And how are we going to use the Higgs field to compute, organise
information systems out of free quarks and pure energy, etc., etc.?
Silence.  But the Boundary Condition Postulate guarantees we will!

Fine, so I make up a boundary condition that says that on Easter Day,
2001, Jesus Christ will return, raise the dead, etc.  Unreasonable?
Not at all.  My boundary condition makes it inevitable.

And what about the black holes?  I take the last existing copy of the
complete works of Tipler and heave it across the event horizon of my
TidyTrash[tm] home black hole.  In comoving proper time, they go zorp
into the singularity and are crushed into nothingness--according to
everything we know, the information is lost, and Tipler suggests
nothing to the contrary.  Now somehow (unexplained), Tipler's Taub
universe event horizon can opener makes the black hole horizon go
away.  What about the singularity?  Well, it seems you now have a very
large number of naked singularities (since no way is known to get rid
of them, nor does Tipler suggest such) converging toward the Omega
Point, which should make things even more interesting for the
universal brain emerging there.

And finally, though I could go on and on, who really accepts that the
indistinguishability of quantum states mandates a continuity of
consciousness?  Suppose we didn't have to wait for the Omega Point?
Suppose there were a computer today (or in 1000 years) which could run
a completely faithful simulation of me--even a simulation at the
quantum level so good the Pauli Exclusion Principle wouldn't let us in
the same room.  Would it *be* me?  Would my consciousness somehow be
shared between my existing brain and the replica machine?  If so, how
would this work if the brain and computer were separated by several
light years?  And if not, then what difference does it make if 10^32
years of death intervene before the simulation begins to run?  That's
supposed to *cause* continuity of consciousness?

What a pile of crap.  I'm just glad he didn't base his arguments too
heavily on nanotechnology, AI, or von Neumann probes; it would have
given them all a bad name.  The review in Nature called POI a
"masterpiece of pseudoscience".  I disagree; I don't think it's that
good.
