
                               Unicard
                               =======

 Ubiquitous Computation, Global Connectivity, and the End of Privacy

                by John Walker -- kelvin@fourmilab.ch
                  Revision 8 -- February 28th, 1994

ABSTRACT
========

Threats to privacy are often seen as efforts launched  by  governments
or  large corporations, using their power to circumscribe individuals'
rights.  Yet often individuals voluntarily surrender their privacy for
promises  of security or, more frequently, pure convenience.  Based on
technologies already available or certain to appear  within  the  next
few  years,  this paper explores how much convenience could be gained,
and how much privacy lost as these technologies enter the mainstream.

INTRODUCTION
============

Decades-long  trends in computing, communication, banking and finance,
and security are converging to create, within this decade,  new  kinds
of  connectivity  among  humans  and  new forms of interaction between
individuals and institutions.

The  precise  form  this  will  take and its immediate and longer-term
consequences are as impossible to predict as it  would  have  been  to
envision,  in  1875,  all the ways in which the telephone has become a
part of modern life.  However, just as one could  confidently  predict
in  1930  that  eventually one could direct dial from any telephone in
the world to any other, we can extrapolate at least the  technological
capabilities certain to emerge in the near future.  Technologies which
meet perceived needs are  often  swiftly  adopted.   This  paper  will
identify  the  key technological trends behind this coming revolution,
sketch how the products which result  from  the  maturation  of  these
technologies  might  look  and  feel  to  the humans who buy them, and
consider some of the social and political consequences, beneficial and
adverse, which may result from these developments.

I've created "Unicard" [tm] to be the concrete embodiment of this  new
technological era.  The following definition is taken from the preface
of the original document  "The  Unicard  Interface--Provider's  Design
Guide",  1998 edition, published by The Unicard Consortium, describing
what is now called Unicard I.

    "Physically, Unicard is a  54x85  mm  plastic  card,  0.5  mm
    thick,  incorporating  a standard microprocessor, the Unicard
    interface software in ROM, its unique identity  code,  and  4
    megabytes  of  nonvolatile memory.  Interface between Unicard
    and external devices is through an inductive link which  both
    powers the card while it is being interrogated and provides a
    bidirectional data channel  [4].   Each  Unicard  contains  a
    non-alterable  512-bit identity.  Unicard's exterior includes
    provisions for the owner's photograph, a magnetic stripe  for
    compatibility  with first-generation credit card readers, and
    a holographic validity tag.  The balance of  the  surface  is
    available for decoration.

    Operationally,    Unicard    serves   as   the   cardholder's
    identification   for   all   forms   of   transactions    and
    interactions.    Unicard  can  potentially  replace  all  the
    following forms of identification and credentials:

            Passport and visas
            House and car keys
            Driver's license and automobile registration(s)
            National ID card
            Employee ID card
            Bank credit, debit, and automatic teller cards
            Health insurance card
            Medical history/blood type/organ donor cards
            Automobile insurance card
            Telephone credit card(s)
            Membership card for clubs, museums, etc.
            Frequent flyer club card(s) and flight coupons
            Car rental discount card(s)
            Train, bus, airplane, toll road and bridge tickets
            Airline flight boarding pass
            Train and bus pass and subscription card
            WHO immunisation certificate
            Telephone number
            Personal telephone directory
            Passwords for access to computers, data services, and networks
            Software subscription access keys
            Cable and satellite TV subscriptions
            Cellular phone and personal digital assistant personal ID
            Encryption keys for secure electronic mail, phone, and FAX
            Electronic signature key
            Cash

    Unicard does not  require  any  of  the  above  documents  be
    eliminated;  They can still be issued and used separately, if
    desired.  But the Unicard  holder  may,  when  patronising  a
    Unicard  member  organisation,  dispense  with  the  separate
    documents and subsume them into  Unicard.   Most  information
    linked  to  Unicard is not physically stored on the card, but
    accessed using a highly-secure key from databases  maintained
    by  individual  organisations, `Providers', both governmental
    and commercial, whose computers are linked into  the  Unicard
    worldwide backbone."

TRENDS
======

The  following trends, each well-established at the present time, will
create the technological infrastructure for Unicard.

Ubiquitous Computing
--------------------

This is the term coined at Xerox PARC [1] for the next  phase  in  the
evolution  of  computing.   The Personal Computer, foreshadowed in the
1970's by the Xerox PARC Alto/Dynabook,  and  faithfully  embodied  in
today's   GUI-equipped,   high   performance,   networked   individual
computers, is on the verge of being transcended by a kind of  computer
which is simultaneously more individual yet less personal.

The   commercial   realisation   of  this  trend  is  visible  in  the
leapfrogging technological development of Personal Digital  Assistants
(PDAs)  such  as the Apple Newton and EO.  Xerox PARC envisions an era
where an individual may have ten or twenty computers--just as one  may
have  ten  or  twenty  books  or  magazines  open  at  various places,
notepads,  etc.,  all  able to access the same pool of information and
communicate.  If these devices become as standard as  pads  of  paper,
they  will be as individual as the notepad you're scribbling on as you
enumerate the holes in my argument, which  is  personal  only  in  the
sense  that  you're  currently  writing  on it.  Once you tear off the
pages you've written, it's just a notepad.

Once computers are ubiquitous and universally  intercommunicate,  what
matters  is who *you* are, not *which computer you're using*.  Picking
up a computer and  identifying  yourself  to  it  (by  inserting  your
Unicard in the slot) makes it "your computer"--with access to  all  of
your  files,  privileges,  etc.  When you put it down, it ceases to be
"yours" and becomes "just a computer", as any pad of  blank  paper  is
"just a pad of paper".

Ubiquitous  computing  manifests itself in other unexpected ways, even
in the crude Xerox PARC prototype.  Their  equivalent  of  Unicard  is
called a "tag"--a unique identification of an individual.  The ability
of tags to be scanned at a distance (a common  capability  in  current
commercially-available  employee  badge  systems),  permits  telephone
calls for an individual to be  automatically  routed  to  the  closest
telephone  and  notification of the arrival of electronic mail, FAXes,
and telephone voice mail  messages  to  appear  on  a  LiveBoard  wall
display  in  the room where the individual currently happens to be, or
to an in-hand UniPad.  The active badge, which allows keeping track of
people's  location  wherever  sensors  are  installed, is a commercial
product available from Olivetti [3].

Embodied in the Personal Digital Assistant, this trend is sufficiently
visible to have appeared in Doonesbury.  Personal communicators, which
permit identification  of  individuals,  wireless  communication,  and
continuous  location tracking are ubiquitous and unremarkable fixtures
of Star Trek: The Next Generation [6]; the  reader  is  reminded  that
just  because  something  appears  on  Star  Trek  doesn't  imply it's
currently impossible.

Universal Connectivity
----------------------

The  Internet  currently connects more than 6 million computers and 20
million individuals.  For the last several years, the number of people
with access to the Internet has doubled  each  year.   Most  observers
expect this trend to continue into the foreseeable future to the point
where Internet access is as  widely  available  to  individuals  as  a
telephone  with  international calling capability (which varies widely
from the first world to the third world--and I expect Internet  access
will track the telecommunications infrastructure in a similar manner).

Over the past few years, the growth of the Internet has  moved  direct
access  to  the  global  network  from a luxury to a necessity for any
organisation involved in science and technology.   Those  institutions
and  companies who, from fear or a false sense of economy, are not yet
connected to the Internet, are presently being carried by their  staff
who   maintain   personal  accounts  on  commercial  Internet  Service
Providers such as Panix, Metronet, Netcom, The Well, EUnet,  etc.   As
direct    high-bandwidth   connectivity   becomes   essential,   these
over-cautious agoraphobic organisations will disappear  into  the  bit
bucket  of  history, beside the early Twentieth century businesses who
believed the telephone an unnecessary distraction.

As the  backbone  of  the  Internet  has  expanded  and  increased  in
bandwidth,  the  reach  of  the global data network has expanded.  The
integration of last-generation X.25 connections with ISDN service  has
brought  packet data service as close as the nearest telephone jack in
much  of  Europe  and  (belatedly)  the  Americas.   Most  first-world
countries  now  have  multiple  Internet  Service  Providers who offer
dial-up SLIP or PPP  connections  which  provide  hard  "on  the  net"
connections  to  any  customer  with  a  modem.  The emergence of 56kb
dial-up modems promises to make this service commonplace even in areas
not yet served by ISDN.

The  asymmetry  of  Internet bandwidth to an individual site (wideband
in, narrowband out), lends itself to asymmetrical solutions.   In  the
Western  Hemisphere,  PageSat provides a satellite downlink of NetNews
and electronic mail which requires only an unobtrusive 63 cm  dish  to
receive  [11].  Some cable television companies (who have bandwidth to
burn) are providing a 10 Mb/second Internet link to their subscribers.

As the breadth and bandwidth of the Internet has grown over  the  last
few years, so its ubiquity will grow in the next few.  Already, in the
San Francisco Bay area,  wireless  bidirectional  Internet  access  at
19.2kb  is  available--you  can  read NetNews while walking the dog or
sitting in a traffic jam.   The  advent  of  global  digital  cellular
communication  (GSM  in  most  of  the  world,  some  incompatible but
equivalent clone in the U.S.  and  its  technological  colonies)  will
provide  wireless  mobile  56kb  net  access  anywhere  one  can use a
cellular phone.   The  launch  of  Motorola's  Iridium  (and/or  other
competing LEO COMSAT swarm systems) will extend network access, albeit
at lower bandwidth, to the most remote points of the globe.  A  member
of  an  expedition climbing Mount Erebus in Antarctica will be able to
insert his Unicard into an  Iridium-capable  PDA  and  send  pictures,
snapped  seconds ago with the PDA's CCD camera, to a colleague working
with the Greenland Icesheet Drilling Project.  Putting  up  with  icky
delays  and  gnarly MPEG artifacts, they can discuss the pictures in a
picturephone link.

The coming of age of the Internet in the public consciousness has also
been signaled by its appearance in Doonesbury and The New Yorker.

Wireless Technology
-------------------

The initial liberation from wires introduced by the  first  generation
of  cellular  telephones is spurring development of a broad variety of
wireless, location independent devices.  Whether cellular,  low  Earth
orbit  satellite, spread spectrum UHF, or diffuse infrared LANs within
a  building,  technologies  are  emerging  which  will   allow   small
autonomous  objects  to  intercommunicate  on  a  global scale without
wires.

Public Key Cryptography and Digital Signatures
----------------------------------------------

It's  hard  to believe, but it's been almost twenty years since public
key cryptography was born.  But recently there's  been  a  fundamental
change  which, at last, validates the technology and moves it into the
technological mainstream.

From the outset, public key cryptography  promised  solutions  to  the
most    intractable   problems   of   information   security:   secure
communication  between  strangers  without  prior  key  exchange   and
verifiable  digital  signatures.   Yet still one wondered.  Public key
cryptography  assumed  the   existence   of   "trapdoor"   functions--
mathematical   functions   easily  calculable  in  one  direction  yet
intractable in the inverse.

Since there is no easy  proof  that  a  given  computation  meets  the
criteria  of  suitability  as  a  trapdoor  function, one is forced to
submit a candidate to the scrutiny of the  mathematical  community  to
see how robust it is.

In  the  last few years a consensus has developed.  Trapdoor functions
based upon the prime factoring of  very  large  numbers  *are*  secure
against foreseeable attacks.

Oddly, validation of this view has come from an effort which  has,  as
its  goal,  the restriction of access to encryption technology and the
granting to government the power to override an individual's right  to
privacy  subject to a court order.  The "Clipper chip" proposed by the
United States [5] is a silicon realisation of a public key/private key
encryption  mechanism.   The "key escrow" proposed for this scheme is,
therefore, a  repository  which  stores  private  keys  which  may  be
released, in the interests of surveillance, only after a stringent set
of legal safeguards have been complied with.

If  "public key/private key" encryption schemes were not secure, there
would be  no  reason  to  burden  their  users  with  a  "key  escrow"
mechanism--the  organs  of internal security could just crack the code
by themselves and read everybody's mail.  The very  existence  of  key
escrow  acknowledges  that  "we have them now"--there is an encryption
technology  which  is  computationally   intractable   even   by   the
codebreakers,  to  such an extent they're forced to demand legislative
relief to continue to read our mail.

Even data security techniques much less secure than public key methods
are  perceived  as  threats by Great Power intelligence agencies.  The
recent successful attempt to limit the anti-eavesdropping security  in
the  GSM  digital cellular telephone standard is evidence of this (and
provides,  to  the  educated  observer,  a  useful  benchmark  of  the
real-time decryption capability presently available.)

Global Positioning Systems
--------------------------

As global communication facilities, integrated into a unified network,
make it  impossible  to  be  out  of  touch  anywhere  on  Earth,  the
completion of the global navigation satellite constellations (U.S. GPS
and  Russian  GLONASS systems) have made it impossible to get lost.  A
handheld GPS receiver, no  larger  than  a  Walkman  cassette  player,
enables  one to determine one's position anywhere on the globe with an
accuracy of 100 metres.  Should easing military tension and/or  demand
from  aircraft  navigation  users  result in removal of the "selective
access" to the higher precision military GPS data, 10  metre  accuracy
is achievable.

Differential  techniques,  where  the GPS receiver communicates with a
local station whose precise co-ordinates are known (for  example,  the
transmitter  of the nearest mobile telephone cell), routinely permit 5
metre accuracy without access to the military  code,  and  experiments
underway  at  NASA  Langley  Research  Center  with  a Boeing 737 have
demonstrated 2 metre accuracy and suggest 1 metre accuracy  is  within
reach.

If you've worked with GPS receivers, you've undoubtedly observed  that
they don't work unless the antenna has a largely unobstructed view  of
the  sky.   Since  the major application of GPS is marine and aircraft
navigation, this poses no problem since naval vessels rarely  if  ever
sail  down  the  concrete canyons of Gotham.  For broader applications
such as automobile navigation systems, tracking of truck location  for
courier  services,  etc.   GPS  is less useful.  Numerous navigational
technologies are being developed to supplement  or  supplant  GPS  for
these  applications,  including  transponder-based  systems, low Earth
Orbit  active  navigation  satellites,  possibly  piggybacked  onto  a
communication   system   such   as   Iridium,   and  the  ground-based
"pseudolites" being developed at Stanford [2],  2  x  3  inch  printed
circuit  boards  which transmit a high-precision GPS-compatible signal
to a local area.  Both U.S. and Russian Earth resources satellites now
carry  receivers  for the SAREX [10] system, which enables location of
those in need of search and rescue in remote areas.  SAREX has already
saved numerous lives, particularly in the Arctic.

UNICARD UTOPIA
==============

It's  July  20,  2004,  only  five  years since The Unicard Consortium
introduced Unicard into test markets around the globe.  Savaged  by  a
"profile" on the technology page of The Wall Street  Journal,  only  a
month before its introduction Unicard had withdrawn its Initial Public
Offering,  hoping  to  recover  its   credibility   (and   price)   by
demonstrating   that  Unicard  was  not  the  "Fishy  Chip"  or  "Giro
Gearloose" the article labeled it.

Looking  back  over those five years, it's hard to imagine that so few
investors believed in Unicard  that  its  IPO,  finally  completed  in
August  of  1999,  sold  at  a  price, accounting for subsequent stock
splits, of less than ten cents.  It's even harder to imagine  a  world
without  Unicard.   For what is Unicard today, but the very membership
badge that identifies citizens of Earth,  making  so  many  previously
difficult   things  easy  and  sweeping  away  problems  that  plagued
civilisation for centuries?

With Unicard, doors unlock themselves for you as you put your hand  on
the  knob,  while  remaining  secure  against  intruders.  The starter
button on your car works only for  the  people  you've  authorised  to
drive it.  You're free from the burden of carrying cash, credit cards,
drivers' licences, auto registration, insurance forms, passports,  and
all  that--you  don't  need  them as long as you have Unicard, and you
always have it--after all, would you go out without any of the  things
it replaces?

Gone is the fear of theft.  If you lose Unicard or somebody is foolish
enough to steal it, simply dial 119 on any  communicating  device,  no
Unicard  needed,  and cancel your old card.  You can pick up a new one
at any post office or bank within an hour.  A crook who tries  to  use
your  stolen  card  will  identify  his location with each transaction
granted while the authorities converge upon the  miscreant.   And  the
Unicard  Safety Net indemnifies all Unicard clients against all losses
incurred through theft or fraud.

With  Communicating  Unicard  IV,  first  issued on July 20, 2002, the
Liberation  Through  Security  [tm]  of  Unicard  took  another  leap.
Equipped  with a local low-power RF transponder, Unicard IV eliminated
the  need  to  even  produce  the  card,  except  when  using  earlier
generation equipment.  Remember all the years you spent in the grocery
line, watching your purchases be efficiently computer-scanned and yet,
at  the  end,  having  to fumble with bills and coins?  How natural it
seems  today  to  just  walk  through,  the  Unicard  in  your  pocket
automatically  charging  the  purchase to your designated Active Debit
Account.

Bridge toll booths, immigration lines at the airport, company security
checkpoints, employee badges have vanished like the morning dew thanks
to Unicard.  Unicard is increasingly not just an  "Open  Sesame"  that
makes  barriers open, but an invisible force that makes them disappear
as obsolete and unnecessary.

How many parents remember the anxiety of child-rearing before Unicard?
Now,  with  your  child's  Unicard  sewn into his or her clothes, your
child can never be lost--a simple call to your local Unicard office or
police  station,  verified by your Unicard as a parent, and your child
is immediately located.  No more little lost children either--a simple
scan  of  their Unicard identifies the nearest parent and dispatches a
telephone call to their  communicator  or,  if  they  have  none,  the
nearest  telephone.   To  increase  the sense of security that Unicard
provides, many parents are now opting to implant subcutaneous  Unicard
compatible  identity  chips  before  their  babies  come home from the
hospital.  A technology proven safe over 20 years  of  veterinary  use
and  implanted in more than 15 million humans today, the identity chip
may, in time and with the development of technology, make the  current
physical  Unicard  obsolete.   The Unicard Consortium understands that
many people are uneasy with  the  identity  chip  concept  and,  while
maintaining  compatibility  between Unicard and the Consortium members
who  provide  identity  chips,  neither  supports  nor  opposes  their
implantation.   The  Unicard  Consortium  opposes  any governmental or
corporate attempt to mandate identity chips.

With the adoption of the United Nations Convention on  Credentials  in
1998,  and its subsequent adoption first by the Republic of California
in 1999, and then by the United States and the European Union in 2001,
all  citizens  and residents of contracting parties must carry legally
valid  identification  documents at all times.  Unicard is, of course,
only an alternative to the official national ID card, but in practice,
given  its  advantages,  has  become  the  choice  of  998 out of 1000
citizens of the US and EU.  The adoption of the UNCC, by  making  lack
of  credentials probable cause for detention, tremendously constrained
the opportunities for crime, since any individual must carry  one  and
only  one Unicard (or national ID card), verifiable against a physical
identity database in case of suspicion.  The virtual disappearance  of
cash  in  these developed economies has enabled the rapid location and
apprehension of criminals  whose  Unicards  are  flagged  by  a  court
order--if  one's  Unicard  is  blocked,  few  choices  remain  but  to
surrender to the authorities.

The Unigate Scandal of  2000  was  a  major  setback  to  The  Unicard
Consortium,  but  strengthened  it  and,  in  time, has reinforced the
public's confidence in  the  legally  guaranteed  privacy  upon  which
Unicard's  Liberation  Through  Security  is  founded.  Unigate, where
low-level Unicard Network Management personnel were extracting  luxury
purchase records from audit and archival backup files and selling them
to mailing list companies, revealed both technological and  managerial
weaknesses which have been remedied by the Consortium, fully complying
with the recommendations of the EU Parliament Special  Commission  and
Unicard's  own  internal  investigation.  While not attempting to deny
the seriousness of the security breach, Unicard notes that credit card
companies  in  the  1980's and 1990's routinely collected and marketed
such information about their clients.  Unicard remains proud  that  in
five  years  of  operation  and  trillions  of  transactions,  banking
records,  health   information,   travel   histories,   tax   filings,
communication  security private keys, or any of the multitude of other
items individuals access with Unicard have remained  entirely  secure,
guarded  against unauthorised disclosure by key escrow and due process
disclosure agreements negotiated between Unicard and the  jurisdiction
of the cardholder's domicile.

Finally, Unicard has eliminated, for more than 99% of its cardholders,
the  burden  of  preparing  and  filing  income tax returns.  With all
tax-relevant   transactions   performed   through   Unicard,  the  tax
preparation  or  accounting  firm  of  the  cardholder's  choice  will
prepare, for a modest fee, complete national and local tax returns for
the cardholder, filing them electronically with  refunds  credited  or
tax  due  debited  from  the  cardholder's  Active Debit Account.  The
United States estimates that the adoption of Unicard Automatic  Filing
has  created  a  net productivity gain of more than US$100 billion per
year, while eliminating more than US$50 billion per year in tax fraud.
In  the  words  of  the  Treasury  Secretary,  "Unicard  has  played a
substantial role in the elimination of budget deficits in America".


UNICARD UBIQUITOUS
==================

The  Unicard  Consortium,  in conjunction with industry organisations,
national and  international  standardisation  bodies,  and  individual
manufacturers  are  now  preparing  the  next  great leap in Unicard's
unification  of  the  universe.   Universal  Unicard  V   will   enter
pilot-phase testing in 2005, with  the  final  standard  and  hardware
integration  specification  expected to be published on July 20, 2007.
Official launch is scheduled for July 20, 2009,  by  which  time  many
products  compatible with Universal Unicard V should already be on the
market.

Since inception, Unicard has  identified  a  human  being.   Universal
Unicard  V  generalises  this  so  that,  in the words of the original
proposal, "every object, agent, or process capable  of  generating  or
responding  to  stimuli  will  receive  a unique Unicard identity, and
become able, subject to Unicard's  principles  of  Liberation  Through
Security, to interact with people and all other such objects."

Just as few imagined how the original, per-person Unicard would change
the world, today only a small band of technological visionaries  truly
grasp the potential of Universal Unicard V.  Let's try to capture some
of their excitement by peeking into the world they see emerging.

Every  person has a Unicard, but that's so commonplace it doesn't bear
mentioning.  But *so does everything else*---automobile and  airplane,
television and telephone, microwave oven and mixer; light switches and
lamps,  speakers  and  amps,  thermometers  and  micrometers, electric
drills and coffee mills, each with its own Unicard or, more precisely,
Unicards.   Not  physical  Unicards  as we know them now, but rather a
range of addresses within the  Unicard  Universe  which  enable  every
control  to send messages and every action to be controlled by receipt
of messages--anywhere on Earth and beyond.

Suppose you've installed a new door between the living room and dining
room  of  your house, and you'd like to add a light switch by the door
to turn on the living room lights.  Call  an  electrician?   Not  with
Universal Unicard V.  Simply go to the store and buy a switch with the
Unicard V logo on the package.  Take it home, peel  off  the  backing,
and  stick  it wherever you like.  Operate it a few times and when you
display your house's Unicard environment, the switch has appeared, not
connected  to  anything.   Draw a line from the switch to the overhead
light and you're done.  Would you like your stereo to  mute  when  you
pick  up  the telephone in the living room?  Draw a line from the hook
switch you see when you display the telephone's Unicard  to  the  mute
switch on the stereo front panel.

How about a panic button that turns on all the lights  in  the  house?
Stick  on  the switch, and wire it to the "On" message terminal of all
the lights.  Wouldn't it be nice if that happened automatically if the
smoke  detector  went  off?   Draw  another line, and it's done.  Have
trouble finding your car in the parking  lot?   Draw  a  line  from  a
button  on your PDA to the car's lights, so you can make them flash by
pressing the button.

Universal  Unicard  V  will not only let you define the connection and
operation of physical objects any way you like, it will largely  erase
the  distinction  between  tangible objects and software.  The button,
switch, knob, or slider that activates or controls a real  object  can
just as well be a software button on a computer screen anywhere in the
world, a control that can be activated not only by  a  human,  but  by
programs.   Conversely,  real  world controls and sensors can activate
software lights, meters, provide input  to  programs  or  trigger  the
activation of software agents to respond to the external signal again,
anywhere in the world.

As the head of the Universal Unicard V design  team  puts  it,  "We're
erasing  the distinction between hardware and software.  We're letting
people redefine their environment any way  they  like,  exploring  new
ways  to  interact  with  the  world  around  them".   As never before
Universal Unicard V challenges the Unicard goal of Liberation  Through
Security.   Unicard  V  will  not be accepted unless there is absolute
confidence it is safe from abuse.  People will not install  Unicard  V
compatible  appliances  if  they believe that teen-age hackers in Hong
Kong can make their toilet flush every time a  taxi  driver  in  Cairo
blows his horn, or that the microphone of the telephone in their house
might be wired, by nosy neighbours,  to  the  input  jack  of  a  tape
recorder  in  theirs.   Clearly,  Unicard V mediated links between the
cockpit displays and controls of  an  airliner  and  its  engines  and
control  surfaces  will  not  supplant  existing fly by wire or fly by
light protocols until the certifying bodies determine them to be  more
reliable  than the systems they're replacing.  The Unicard Consortium,
aware of the challenge before it, has adopted a conservative  schedule
for  the  design,  validation,  pilot test, and market introduction of
Universal Unicard V, and has involved in the effort, from the  outset,
government  and  industry representatives so that concerns relating to
public safety, privacy, human rights, law  enforcement,  and  national
security can be incorporated into the final design specification.

It is a tribute to the vision of the  original  designers  of  Unicard
that  they chose a 512 bit unique identity for each card.  In light of
historical problems with  Internet  address  space,  telephone  number
assignment,  and  other  name  space  congestion  problems,  Unicard's
designers opted for an unbounded future.  The universe is believed  to
contain  approximately  10^80  protons;  an  address space of 266 bits
permits assigning every proton  in  the  universe  a  unique  Unicard.
Since  no  known physical principle would permit encoding such a large
amount of information without using many more protons, an  address  of
that  size  should be more than adequate for all time.  Opting for the
immensely larger 512 bit identity (10^154  unique  addresses)  permits
"wasting"  address  space in the interest of decentralised issuance of
subspaces within the overall address space and  the  incorporation  of
robust  redundancy  in identities to guard against errors.  Indicative
of the humility of the Unicard designers in the face  of  eternity  is
their  decision to reserve the 2^511 bit to indicate, if one, that the
following identity is 1024 bits.


UNICARD UNDERSIDE
=================

Every step in the technological progress toward our modern  world  has
been  opposed  by  those  who saw in it a threat to the way of life to
which they had become  accustomed.   Progress  is  impossible  without
change,  and  change  inevitably  creates discontent, especially among
those set in their ways.  Yet without progress our society would  grow
stagnant  and  eventually disappear at the hands of those more willing
to build the future.

Even though Unicard is not a  revolutionary  change,  but  rather  the
integration  of already-existing instruments into one small card, some
see Unicard as an unprecedented assault upon their civil liberties and
right to privacy.  In reality, Unicard is neutral in this regard.  All
of the legal guarantees of privacy which existed  before  Unicard  are
unchanged.  Communication security and the right to confidentiality of
health and other personal information are, if  anything,  enhanced  by
Unicard.  Since all communications, in whatever form, sent to and from
a Unicard holder are encrypted in  an  unbreakable  form,  law-abiding
citizens   are  guaranteed  their  data  remain  private,  as  only  a
due-process determination of probable cause, as  in  investigation  of
terrorists,  drug dealers, money launderers, or tax evaders, can cause
release of escrowed keys to law enforcement agencies.

The personal location  tracking  aspects  of  Unicard,  both  inherent
through  the  collection  of  financial  transaction  data  and,  more
recently, by collection of legally protected personal tracking data by
ScannerPosts  and  position ping reports from Unicard-compatible PDAs,
have often been cited as a novel and particularly  intrusive  form  of
invasion  of  privacy  due  to Unicard.  Yet no legal tradition of any
human culture, from the Code of Hammurabi to the present day,  asserts
a  right to privacy of movement.  To the contrary, courts have granted
wide latitude in obtaining evidence of the  movements  of  individuals
when  relevant to a legal proceeding.  The United States Supreme Court
decided  in 2003 in Carlyle  vs. O'Ryan  that   Unicard's  ability  to
track,  whether  in  real  time  or  after  the  fact, the movement of
individuals, did not infringe the First Amendment guarantee of  "right
of  the people peaceably to assemble".  The Chief Justice, writing for
the majority, concluded "The right to privacy does not confer a  right
to  anonymity  in  public  actions.   This  technology,  given the due
process  constraints  upon  disclosure  it  embodies,   infringes   no
constitutionally  guaranteed right and provides admissible evidence of
movement relevant to conspiracy and other civil and criminal cases."

Unicard's individual location traces, embargoed against release except
by due process, provide law enforcement the tools it needs to  put  an
end  to  random  violence,  drug dealing, foreign terrorism, and other
crimes against lawful citizens without compromising the rights of  law
abiding citizens [5,7].


WHERE ARE THEY NOW?
===================

The  state  of development of the key enabling technologies of Unicard
as of early 1994 is briefly surveyed below.

Distributed database and transaction computers:
    Exist today.  Unicard requires  a  system  no  more  complex  than
    present-day  airline  reservation  and retail bank and credit card
    operations.  Unicard would almost certainly  be  implemented  like
    existing  Videotex  services,  where  Unicard  provided  only  the
    backbone and gateway to servers operated by the various facilities
    accessed though Unicard.

Global positioning systems:
    The  GPS  and  GLONASS constellations are operational, with launch
    capability and on-orbit spares approaching  the  level  that  both
    systems  can  be  considered  reliable.  Concern for political and
    economic stability in Russia and worries about continued access to
    the  Baikonur  launch site in now-independent Kazakhstan cloud the
    future of GLONASS.  GPS is considered secure, although the  United
    States  Department  of  Defense, its operator, has provided only a
    ten-year guarantee of free access by commercial  users.   Intelsat
    is  considering  fielding  its  own non-military and international
    system, and many civil users of GPS are urging the U.S. and Russia
    to turn over management and operation of their existing systems to
    an international body.  The advantages  of  GPS  for  aeronautical
    navigation,   ranging  from  trans-Pacific  flights  to  precision
    approaches by light planes to unimproved  and  unattended  landing
    strips  are  driving research in GPS applications.  Nobody expects
    to reach the limits of what is possible with GPS any time soon.

    Other positioning systems are still in the experimental  or  early
    development  phase.   Certainly  a multitude of local transponders
    can provide very high resolution location, but  cheaper  solutions
    such as LEO satellite constellations are as yet unproven.

Implanted identity chips:
    Exist  today,  and  are  widely  used  for  animals  ranging  from
    laboratory  rats  and  mice  to  horses  and  cattle.   Considered
    entirely  safe,  implantation  takes only a few seconds and can be
    performed by  most  first  world  veterinarians  with  a  syringe.
    Trauma  to  the  implantee  is  no  more than a regular injection.
    Current technology requires scanning with a hand-held detector not
    unlike  an  airport  hand-held metal detector--hence a close-range
    frisking type scan.  Given the  present  application,  there's  no
    demand for scanning at a distance.  To my knowledge identity chips
    have  not been implanted into humans, certainly not routinely, but
    I am aware of no medical evidence to oppose their use.  One vendor
    of identity chips is Bio Medic Data Systems, Inc., 205 West Spring
    Valley Avenue, Maywood, NJ 07607, USA, Tel ++1 201 587  8300;  see
    [9].

Personal Digital Assistants / Universal Communicators:
    The potential  to  unify  palmtop,  perhaps  pen-based  computers,
    cellular  telephone,  FAX,  and  global  data  networks into a new
    category of product is widely recognised, and  companies  such  as
    Apple, Sharp, Casio, and Microsoft are racing to set the standards
    for  such  products.   Integration  of  global positioning and the
    ubiquitous computation concept that a computer is made  "personal"
    by the identity of its current rather than hardware ownership have
    not yet been widely discussed in conjunction with these products.

Internet:
    Perhaps  the most significant technological, social, and political
    phenomenon of the decade, the rapid growth  of  the  Internet  may
    accelerate  further  as  the  United States moves to implement its
    "Information  Superhighway"  infrastructure.   In  all  likelihood
    based  on  a  fibre  optic backbone and Asynchronous Transfer Mode
    (ATM) switching architecture, and driven by populist supporters to
    provide  universal  connectivity, a future where Internet taps are
    as commonplace as (and indistinguishable from) telephones  may  be
    much  nearer  than  many think.  A Connected Society promises such
    increased competitiveness that other industrialised  regions  will
    be  motivated  to  launch their own data infrastructure plans with
    comparable capability and schedule.

Non-contact sensing:
    The Olivetti Active Badge used by Xerox PARC  and  the  MIT  Media
    Lab,  and  its  more  primitive  brethren  widely used in industry
    demonstrate that reliable sensing of a  credential  carried  by  a
    person  need not involve any distracting and time-consuming action
    by the wearer.  These technologies are not widely applied and at a
    very early stage of development; they can therefore be expected to
    improve dramatically when driven by  a  potential  market  in  the
    hundreds of millions to billions of units.

Public key cryptography:
    With the battle over the Clipper Chip still unresolved, public key
    cryptography has already permeated the Internet community with the
    broad  diffusion   of   Phil   Zimmerman's   PGP   package.    The
    availability,  within  the United States, of an RSA-licensed fully
    compatible version of PGP allows patent-risk-free  commercial  use
    within  the  U.S.  and  throughout  the  world.   Internet Privacy
    Enhanced Mail (PEM) offers an alternative public key architecture,
    with a more centralised approach to key management.

Wireless technology:
    This   is   one   of   the  most  rapidly  bubbling  cauldrons  of
    technological ferment today.  Whether cellular phone PCMCIA  cards
    for  laptops  and PDAs [8], radio or infrared LANs for the home or
    office, it's clear that user demand, technological  progress,  and
    opening  of  the  900 Mhz band have sounded the death knell of the
    copper cable.

Global wireless communication:
    Motorola's  Iridium system has obtained funding and found partners
    which make its launch late in the 1990's seem  assured.   Hardware
    development,  both  of prototype satellites and portable terminals
    is currently underway.  Other organisations, such as Intelsat  and
    Inmarsat are considering fielding competitive systems.

The Wall Street Journal:
    Continues  to  ignore or ridicule emerging technologies until well
    after all the easy money has been made in them.

National identity cards:
    Most industrialised nations issue one form or another of  national
    identity  card,  and  many  require adults to carry their card and
    produce it when asked by the authorities.  Jurisdictions where  no
    nominal  identity  card  exists  often have an equivalent.  In the
    United States, anybody who travels by automobile,  which  accounts
    for  the  overwhelming  percentage  of  the adult population, must
    carry a driver's license which, though issued by state governments
    rather  than  national  government, is linked through the National
    Crime Information Center to  all  law  enforcement  jurisdictions.
    Even  non-drivers  are  practically  required  to  obtain  a state
    identification  card,  since  "Photo  ID"  is  required  for  many
    transactions.   The  United States is experimenting with passports
    linked  to  a  database  of  hand  geometry,  which  would   allow
    verification of the bearer's identity at border control stations.

Automatic tax calculation and filing:
    For more than a decade, the United States Internal Revenue Service
    has  allowed  taxpayers  with  only  regular  wage  income and the
    standard deduction to simply sign their return and  have  the  IRS
    calculate  the  tax.   With  increased  reporting of all financial
    transactions to the IRS by banks, stockbrokers, mutual funds, real
    estate title companies, etc., IRS officials have stated on several
    occasions  over  the  last  few  years  that  the  day  when   the
    overwhelming number of taxpayers could have their taxes calculated
    automatically  was  not  very far in the future.  In addition, the
    IRS permits and encourages electronic filing of tax returns, so as
    soon as all relevant transactions can be collected electronically,
    automatic filing can be implemented independent of the IRS.


DISCLAIMER
==========

The  author of this document sincerely hopes that nothing like Unicard
ever comes to pass or, if it does, that privacy  is  inherent  in  its
technological  foundations,  not  dependent  upon  the  good  will and
respect for the law of governments and the  fallible  individuals  who
compose  them.   Given  the obviousness of the trends whose confluence
may give birth to Unicard, I decided the potential benefit of alerting
those  concerned  with  threats to privacy of its imminence outweighed
any risk of accelerating its appearance by describing  it  in  such  a
concrete  form.  I have deliberately written this paper to present the
attractions of Unicard and minimise  the  risks  with  the  intent  of
demonstrating  how seductively compelling the convenience and apparent
security of such a development  might  be  to  the  vast  majority  of
people.   Imagine  what  a  world-class advertising agency could do to
promote it.

Unicard  is  possible,  if  not  today,  in  the  very  near   future.
Technological  feasibility does not imply inevitability--were that the
case we would be launching weekly Saturn V  flights  to  Mars,  flying
from  New  York to London in two hours in Mach 3 aircraft, and halting
global  warming  by  building  thousands  of  plutonium  fast  breeder
reactors.   But  when  social  trends  are already evolving in a given
direction,  for  example  the  loss  of  individual  privacy   through
increasingly  fine-grained  surveillance  of  behaviour, technological
developments which remove barriers which previously  constrained  this
drift are distinctly worrying.

Attempts  to  limit  the development of technologies, especially those
which, wisely applied, have self-evident value  to  a  broad  base  of
people, are usually futile.  What is needed, and now, is foresight and
a careful analysis of  the  evolving  relationship  between  developed
societies  and  their  citizens.   If informed citizens exercise their
sovereign right to choose the kind of world they wish to live in, then
use their collective power to guide the development and application of
technology, there is no reason to fear the future.

If subjects of mighty governments  abdicate  their  responsibility  at
this  turning  point  in  history,  the  era of privacy and individual
freedom may be coming to an end.

REFERENCES
==========

1.  PARC Builds a World Saturated With Computation.  M. M. Waldrop,
    Science 261, 1523 (1993).

2.  GPS "Pseudolites" Offer Promise for Approaches.  Aviation
    Week & Space Technology, October 18, 1993, p. 60.

3.  Track People with Active Badges.  D. Pountain, Byte, December
    1993, p. 57.

4.  Secrets of Using the DS1209 in an RF Transponder.  M. Ferrari,
    Midnight Engineering 41, 14 (1993).

5.  Statement on Encryption Technology.  The White House, Office of
    the Press Secretary, February 4, 1994.

6.  Sternbach, R. and M. Okuda.  Star Trek: The Next Generation
    Technical Manual.  New York: Pocket Books, 1991.  ISBN 0-671-70427-3.
    Pp. 92-95.

7.  FBI, NSA Win Fight for High-Tech Eavesdropping Communication.
    Los Angeles Times, February 5, 1994.

8.  Tune In, Turn On: Sound, Cellular Now on Cards.  J. Bertolucci,
    PC World, February 1994, p. 64.

9.  Bio Medic Data Systems, advertisement.  Science 262, 816-817
    (1993).

10. SAREX is the acronym for "Search and Rescue Exercise", not the
    "Shuttle Amateur Radio Experiment" ham radio on the Space Shuttle
    program which, confusingly, shares the same acronym.

11. For information contact PageSat, Inc., 992 San Antonio Road,
    Palo Alto, CA 94303, USA, ++1 415 424-0384, or E-mail to
    pagesat@pagesat.net.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   ________________________________
                  |                                |
                  |   U   N   I   C   A   R   D    |
                  |                                |
                  |  Liberation Through Security   |
                  |________________________________|

             (C) Copyright 1998 -- The Unicard Consortium

This   document  may  be  freely  redistributed  in  unmodified  form,
including this statement.  Excerpts of any length may be quoted  under
the doctrine of fair use, as long as identified as such and the source
cited.

The most recent copy of this document may be retrieved by anonymous
FTP from:

    ftp ftp.fourmilab.ch
    Name: anonymous
    Password: <your E-mail name>
    cd /pub/kelvin/documents
    get unicard.doc
    bye

The author may be contacted via Internet E-mail to:

    kelvin@fourmilab.ch
