Date:    Sat, 24 Jul 1993 14:13:08 EST
From:    Dave Banisar <banisar@washofc.cpsr.org>
Subject: Credit Reports and National Security

Last week, the Senate Intelligence Committee approved a provision that
allows for FBI access to credit reports using only a letter instead of a
judical warrant in cases that they say involved national security. There is
concern that this will be subject to abuse and that the necessity has not
been proven.  Several privacy and consumer groups sent this letter opposing
the provision.

I was unable to easily find the actual text but will get it after I come
back from vacation.

Dave Banisar
CPSR Washington Office


                             July 12, 1993


   The Honorable Dennis Deconcini
   Chairman
   Senate Select Committee on Intelligence
   United States Senate
   SH-211 Hart Senate Office Building
   Washington, DC  20510-6475

   Dear Chairman DeConcini;

        We are writing to voice our strong opposition to the
   Administration's legislative proposal to amend the Fair Credit
   Reporting Act (FCRA) to allow the Federal Bureau of  Investigation
   (FBI) to obtain consumer credit reports in foreign
   counterintelligence cases.

        The FBI seeks a national security letter exemption to the
   FCRA to obtain personal information from consumer  reporting
   agencies without a subpoena or court order. A  national  security
   letter gives the FBI the authority to obtain records without
   judicial approval and without providing notice to the  individual
   that his or her records have been obtained by the Bureau.
   Similar FBI proposals were rejected in previous years  after
   Congressional leaders expressed concern over  the  civil  liberties
   issues raised.

        Although the current draft proposal is more comprehensive
   than those circulated in previous years, the changes and
   additions do not alter significantly the central character of  the
   proposal. The Administration's 1993 proposal  includes  explicit
   limits to'dissemination of obtained information within the
   goverrment, penalties for violations including punitive  damages,
   and reporting requirements.  These provisions are positive
   changes from the legislation put forward in previous years,  but
   they do not save the proposal from its intrinsic flaws.

        Therefore, the reasons for our fundamental opposition to  the
   current proposal remain the same: 1) the FBI has not  demonstrated
   a compelling need for access to consumer credit reports; and  2)
   legislation that implicates civil liberties should be  addressed
   separately and not as part of the authorization process.

         There are only two instances in which Congress has
   authorized the FBI, in counterintelligence investigations, to
   obtain information about individuals pursuant to a  national
   security letter but without a subpoena, search warrant or  court
   order. First, the Electronic Communications Privacy  Act  (ECPA)
   of 1986 included a provision requiring common carriers to
   disclose subscriber information and long distance toll records  to
   the FBI in response to a national security  letter.  Second,
   congress included in the 1987 Intelligence Authorization Act  an
    amendment to the Right to Financial Privacy Act (RFPA) that
    requires banks to provide customer records to the FBI in  response
    to a similar letter. In that case, the FBI presented  to  Congress
    its case for obtaining financial records in foreign counter-
    intelligence cases and the difficulty of obtaining  those  records
    without a court order.

         In both instances when congress has previously  authorized
    the national security letter, Congress recognized that  the
    procedure departs dramatically from the procedure necessary  to
    obtain a court order.

          The FBI's current proposal seeks similar access to
    individuals' credit records held by consumer reporting  companies.
    The FBI has yet to adequately justify its need to add such  highly
    personal, sensitive information to the narrow category of  records
    subject to the national security letter exemption.
         The Bureau claims obtaining credit reports will allow  it  to
    more easily determine where a subject of an investigation  banks
    -- information the FBI claims will help them effectuate their
    ability to access bank records under the RFPA. We  opposed  the
    national security letter exemption in the RFPA and do not  endorse
    the FBI's slippery slope approach to ensuring that they  can  more
    easily obtain financial information in foreign
    counterintelligence cases. This information can be  and  is
    routinely gained without credit reports.  We do not believe
    convenience is a sufficient justification for this  significant
    exception to the law.
         The FBI further argues that obtaining banking  information
    through a credit report is preferred because it is  actually  leas
    intrusive than those investigative methods that would  otherwise
    be used.  While we too are frustrated that other information-
    gathering techniques are frequently too intrusive, our  objections
    to the other techniques do not lead us to endorse yet another
    technique that is also intrusive and that weakens  existing
    privacy law.
         Finally, we object to using the authorization process as  the
    vehicle for pursuing this change. The national  security  latter
    exemption, because it diminishes the due process and privacy
    protections for individuals, must be given the most careful
    consideration. The FBI's proposal should be  introduced  as
    separate legislation on which public hearings can  be  held.  only
    in this way can the Committee test thoroughly the FBI's  case  for
    the exemption and hear from witnesses who object to the change.


        We urge you to reject the FBI's proposal in its current
   form.  We are available to work with you on this issue.

                            Sincerely,



   Janiori Goldman                                  Michelle Meier
   Privacy and Technology Project          Consumers Union
   American civil Liberties Union


   Marc Rotenberg                                 Evan Hendricks
   Computer Professionals for              U.S. Privacy Council
   Social Responsibility

   cc:  Members, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence

        The Honorable George J. Mitchell
        Senate Majority Leader

        The Honorable Donald W. Riegle, Jr., Chairman
        Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs

        The Honorable Patrick J. Leahy, Chairman
        Subcommittee on Technology and the Law
--
Dave Feustel N9MYI <feustel@netcom.com>

Debt Reduction, not deficit reduction




 

