
  Well here it is people, PART TWO of the Classroom/Skool
Anarchy Volumes! If you ever get a chance to try some of these
evil tasks... tell us how they worked! Muuuahaha... Well here
it goes..

  Every school you will ever go to has at least one completely
annoying loser that you would just love to harass.  Compiled here
is a collection of dirty tricks to play on just such people.

  If you have a Phys Ed/Gym class, go to someones locker and
break open one of those el cheapo ball point pens, making sure that
you don't get any ink on yerself.  Now, carefully apply the thick,
dark ink to the numbers on the dudes locker dial.  Don't forget to
smear a good portion on the actuall knob also.  When he gets back
it'll be next to impossible to dial the right combination since he
can't even see the numbers!

  If you sit right in back of someone you really hate, heres a
nice little trick that can result in loads of pain to the victim.
Take a nice rubberband, preferably the thin ones, and start
twisting it for about 75 or so twists or until little knots start
to form in the rubberband (if you do a "double helix" kind of twist
the trick won't work).  Now, stretch the twisted rubberband taught
and place it on the dudes hair and let go!  Instant hair tangler.

  In computer class it's always fun to set up the unoccupied
computers to start beeping hyterically at a certain time.  Write
a (Basic) program something like this:

  10 FOR x = 1 TO 50000
  20 NEXT x
  30 FOR y = 1 TO 10
  40   PRINT chr$(7)
  50   FOR w = 1 to 100
  60   NEXT w
  70 NEXT y
  80 END

Do this to a few of the machines and run them simultaneously.  In
a few minutes the machines will be beeping like mad and drive the
teacher up the wall.  It's really fun doing it to a substitute
teacher who doesn't know shit about computers and has to turn off
the power supply, thus ruining *everybody's* programs!

  Another great computer trick to play if yer schools 'puters don't
have any disk drives or any form of backup, is to disable the break
keys (or sequence thereof) and wait til some dork types in a long
program with an infinite loop and runs it! heheh

  If your schools library has an electronic theft protection
machine, there's bound to be little metallic strips buried deep in
the pages of most of the books.  Try to find those little strips
by opening a book and spreading the pages apart (this takes some
time and patience).  Put the little strips in some idiot's backpack
along with a few bullets.  When he walks through the electronic
gate watch out!  He'll most likely have to empty out his backpack,
and when they find those bullets on him...heheh, expulsion city for
the dork (at least in the LAUSD it is).

  Ya know how some people like to slide down those rails in the
center of stairways?  The obvious thing to do here is to cut loose
with a big glob of spit, heavy on the mucus, right on the rail! 
If not that, take one of those "paint" pens and draw a thick line
right down the rail.  When the idiot goes to slide down it...well,
you know the rest. An ever better this to do it, super glue a small
nail upward on the railing...*OUCH*!!
0
  If you really are sick of a class, just take some gum and
stick it in the locks to the doors of that class.  Guaranteed to
prevent the entree of the teacher or anyone else until the janitor
can remove it! Also ToothPicks Work just the same, if not better.

  If you have typing or computer class, it's always fun to sit
in the back and pick yer nose and leave the residue on the
keyboard.  Same goes for doorknobs, locker dials, light switches
hand rails, etc...

  
  Anyway, hope you enjoy these wonderfully entertaining trick
to play on yer friends (and enemies).  Laterz.

                            -Silentium Mortem

