+--------------------------+
| Cellular Fraud in the UK |
+--------------------------+

The first (obvious) obstacle you need to get over is to obtain a phone. 
You'll need to get a phone which you're going to be able to change the ESN 
on so don't rush out and buy that Uniden CPP5500 from Mr Shifty in the 
street since you're not going to be able to reprogram the ESN very easily. 
ESN, incidentally, stands for Electronic Serial Number - It identifies one 
phone from another - Hence changing the ESN fools the phone company into 
thinking your phone is somebody else's and you can make calls as if you 
were holding the phone being cloned.

So before buying a phone, check what reprogramming software you can get hold 
of. There isn't a great deal of software floating about on h/p boards but on
most (such as the fabuluous Unauthorised Access) you'll find software for
most Motorolas, NEC P3s/P4s, Sony MarsBar, Ericsson EH237/97, Panasonic A-F. 
Software for the newer phones do not tend to be on general pirate release as 
they have robust copy protections so you may have to go out and buy software 
for such phones. The cheapiest & easiest software to go for would be P100, 
Panasonic I/J,  so if you don't mind buying the software, try and get hold of 
one of these phones. The price of the reprogramming software for these models 
is quite low these days. I, personally, would charge between 30 and 60ukp if 
you were to buy them from me but most places will charge around the 100ukp 
mark. For a little bit more you'll get the cables to boot. The reason for me 
recommending this software is that to reprogram these models you merely need 
a cable to connect the phone to your IBM PC. Some of the more obscure phones 
need EPROM programmers to change the ESN so each time you need to change it 
(which would be quite frequently I'd imagine) you'd need to open up the phone, 
program the chip and put it in the phone. This kind of thing is only really 
suitable for one off jobs, not for someone who needs to constantly change the 
ESN, like your good self. 

So now you have a phone, some software to reprogram it and, if you're 
slightly electronically inclined, the cable to go with it. Diagrams for
making up the cables should come with the software (check my Sony MarsBar
release for a good example). If you purchase the software your "man" should
provide you with the wiring diagrams. If the mere thought of a soldering
iron & a couple of resistors makes you break out in a cold sweat then all is
not lost. Your "man" should be able to supply you one, or you may go to one
of the many people who advertise in Exchange & Mart for them. There are 
always a few adverts in there for ESN software & cables - you may be looking 
at 60 quid, though, for a cable which represents about 10 quid's worth of
components - But that's how these guys make their money, right ? Don't worry
about buying this stuff, they should be happy to sell to a private person. 
If someone will only supply to registered dealers, the chances are they'll be
charging more for the kit so go elsewhere. For the record, these people will
probably assume you are getting the kit for rechipping 2nd hand phones and 
selling them with airtime since this is where 95% of their business comes
from. The software was written and is for sale for "legitimate" purposes
rather than for cloning fraud. I use the term "legitimate" lightly, however,
since the authorities would like to see even the rechipping of 2nd hand
phones stamped out.

There can be yet more complications once you have all the stuff because
different versions of software might not work with your particular phone
since yours is very new. If you have any trouble phone your supplier or post 
your problem on an h/p bbs. I could try to list all the problems & remedies
but it would fill the entire magazine so I'll leave that for you to find.
The chances are you'll sail through without any problems anyway (touch wood)

Once you have everything set up and you can change the ESN to your heart's
content you're going to want to know how you can start making free calls...
All you need now is your first victim's phone number (also known as MIN - 
Mobile Identification Number) and the ESN of his phone. The ESN and MIN are
commonly referred to as a "Pair". There are various methods of gaining pairs.
You could start by trashing your local Vodafone Centres. They often throw 
out FAX transmissions made/received when making connections that contain all
the information you would need (and more!). There are ESN scanners available
on the market such as the one made by Curtis Electronics. Check Exchange &
Mart for such equipment but you are probably looking at paying over 1000ukp
for something which you are getting in order to make free calls! So to the 
average teenage phreak this kind of hardware is out of the question. If you 
know a fair bit about electronics you may be able to modify a cheap hand 
scanner to pick up pairs and display them on your computer screen (Check 
your local board for files on that topic). Another method, if you're stuck, 
is the old social engineering routine. Call someone up and pretend to be a 
Vodafone engineer <blah blah bullshit blah> "Service problems" <rhubarb 
rhubarb> and get it out of them that way. There are millions of scripts you 
could use. Just use your imagination.

Having not done anything for a good while, I'm not too sure how fast an 
account dies in the UK these days. They used to last a month at a time until
the customer got their bill (or perhaps longer) but now the phone systems
are becoming increasingly more adept at picking up odd calling patterns etc.
and some may die immediately after you make your first call. If I remember
rightly, Vodafone bar the account if two calls are made at once on the same
account. People often ask me about getting calls which aren't intended for 
you. The answer is, yes, you will receive someone else's calls if you are 
using their account. But if both you and the victim have their phone switched 
on, only one will receive it, that being the one who switched his phone on 
last. So if you want to receive a call on your account, set an exact time for 
your 'phriend' to call you and switch your phone on immediately before-hand.

Another common question is "What happens when this victim gets his bill and
me friend's number is all over it ?" Well the simple answer is "Who knows?".
But what I can tell you is that I get many, many calls from people using 
stolen pairs and up until now I, nor any of my friends have had any problems.
It's not your fault if someone else calls you using a stolen pair and how are
you supposed to remember who called you at 9:14pm on Tuesday of last month?!
This tends to be written off by the service providers as a loss & not
investigated further. This may change, I don't know, but I wouldn't be too
worried. As for the phone system tracing you, I really can't see it myself.
You may have heard of a process called "Triangulation" which can pinpoint you
to (I think) a block of houses or something. Well, a friend of mine spends 
4-5 hours a night boning pairs from the same place (his house) and over the 
past year he's never been touched. I guess if they _really_ wanted you, like
that Kevin Mitnick guy who just got arrested in America, they could get to
you but it took a lot more than triangulation to pinpoint Kevin Mitnick.
They pinpionted him to a block of flats and then raided _all_ of the flats
until they found him. A waste of taxpayers' money if you're looking for a
teenage kid calling his mate down the road for free.

You may well be interested in hooking your modem up to your cellphone. Well,
there are some adaptors on the market for specific phones but they tend to
be very pricey. Your best bet would be to try and pick up a Motorola 4500X or
4800X and build the circuit designed by the same friend I mentioned above.
You'll find his text file on most boards and the components will only cost
you 10-20 quid or so. The bonus is that the 45/48s (big transportable bag
phone) has an excellent boosted reception and in many areas you'll get 1600+
cps no problems on a 14.4k modem. It's also great as a phone for voice calls
due to the reception and it takes only seconds to reprogram. It is possible
to connect most phones up to a modem, however this may take some thought and
work from yourself (and we all like to have things handed to us on a platter
don't we ?). The circuit for the interface will be the same in all cases, it
is your job to find out the correct pins to connect the interface to. You'll
want audio tx/rx and ground. There is a file knocking around that tells you
how to connect a modem to a P3 which is all well and good, since the P3 is an
infamous phreaker's phone but the call quality is nothing compared to the 
4800X so your connect rates will be much lower.

An interesting subject which I have little experience (unfortunately) in is
the issue of modified test chips. The most widely available would have to be
the NEC test rom for the P3 dubbed as the "Store-69" chip. With this you may
change the ESN of the phone at will by storing the 11-digit ESN in memory
bank #69, just as you would your friend's phone number. Then, a simple matter
of pressing a few buttons will put the phone into test mode from where you 
can change the phone number and also do other neat things like scan the 
cellular frequencies allowing you to eavesdrop on other mobile phone calls. 
The ROM dump for this is widely available on most boards so if you have 
access to an EPROM programmer you can open the phone up, take out the chip 
and blow the new ROM software into it. Otherwise you shouldn't have too much 
trouble finding someone to sell you one for œ20-60.

I often hear stories of more advanced chips and, although I know people who
will swear they have seen one in action, I have never actually witnessed one
myself. A popular point of conversation is a chip for the Panasonic F1 which
grabs 20 ESN/MIN pairs when you switch the phone on and "tumbles" through
them one-by-one each time you make a call. Thus erradicating the need for 
finding ESN pairs yourself and your calls may go unnoticed by your victims
since you will probably only make one call on their bill. It makes the whole
process fully automated and very easy. I have heard of similar chips for the
P3 and the Motorola Microtac-II. The Microtac one sounds especially good 
since, aswell as it being a great phone, after adding this PIC chip to the
phone you may keep a proper account of your own on the phone and (only) when
you make a call it automatically grabs an ESN/MIN pair, uses it for that 
call and then reverts back to your own legitimate ESN/MIN. This is very
handy in itself and you have the advantage of having an ESN which is yours 
in the phone just in case you get picked up by the cops (assuming you sign
up for your own airtime contract).

I hope this article has enlightened the unenlightened on how easy it is once
you know the basics. It is a very open system for now. For the future, 
Vodafone and Cellnet are planning to introduce a new system called TACS-II
which will require customers to enter a 16-digit pin registered at the cell
site before they can make a call. Most new phones have this feature ready
implemented for future compatibility but don't worry because these plans are
by no means immediate. It could be unveiled in '96 or even '98, and even
then it is to run alongside the current ETACS system so there will always be
plenty of pairs to make use of.

If you have any questions or comments please feel free to contact me via 
e-mail at an122713@anon.penet.fi

Long live cellular!
