
HACKER

 1 Logon, SRU, Mapping, Mission,
    Spies, Locations
 2 Satellites, Spy Requirements,
    Running Out Of Time


 HACKER
 Part 1

 HACKER, a graphic adventure by Activision, Inc., is a frustrating, maddening
challenge. As with most computer games there may be several different ways to
solve it. I played the Apple Macintosh version which may differ from other
versions of the game. Please consider this walkthru as just one possible
solution.


 LOGON PLEASE: Type anything -- "Activision", "Hacker"," Help", or just hit the
carriage return. You'll be told that you've made an error; but try again. After
a few attempts at this, the program will state that you are being disconnected
and a lot of garbage will appear on the screen. Don't give up; just wait! There
will be a Security System Malfunction then...CONNECTION COMPLETE. WELCOME TO
MAGMA, LTD. (Remember the name of the company, for you'll need to know it
later.)

 After you have learned the location of the test site, you can log on by simply
typing in AUSTRALIA. But please don't do this to start with for you will miss a
lot of information which you need.

 SRU TEST: A drawing of 
the Subterranean Remote Unit (SRU) will appear on the
screen. Model # AX-0310479 available for clandistine operation. (Remember the
model number.) You must pass a test on identifying parts of the SRU. Pay close
attention and, unless you have a terrific memory, jot down the pertinent data
(especially the type of motovator).

 MAPPING: A gridded map of the world will appear on the screen with little
squares indicating the location of all Magma, LTD. Information Sites in use. The
location of your SRU will also appear as a little square. The SRU travels
through an intricate system of underground tunnels throughout the world. You
should map this tunnel system as accurately as possible so you will know exactly
how to get from one location to another in the least amount of time. It's a good
idea to jot down the number of sound effects "bleeps" from one location to
another on the map because later in the game your Telemetry Guidance System will
become inoperative and you will no longer be able to see the location of your
SRU. Also, it is through mapping that you will most likely learn the location of
the test site.

 MISSION: You will learn that some spies have stolen the pieces of a shredded
document which contains proprietary information concerning "The Magma Project."
Your mission: Use the SRU to negotiate with the spies for the return of all the
pieces of the document. You will begin with a standard amount of cash with which
you must buy pieces of the document (evidence) or buy merchandise which can be
traded for evidence. Some spies will take merchandise which other spies require
so you must learn what each spy requires. Buy only the merchandise you need or
you will run out of money.

 NEGOTIATING WITH SPIES: When you reach an Information Site, you must surface
and CALL the spy. CLL is the abbreviation for CALL. If it's dark in a location,
you must first activate your Infrared vision. The abbreviation for Infrared is
IR. After he is called, the spy will start walking toward you. You can speed
things up by traveling east to meet him. He will converse with you in his native
tongue. Offer either money or merchandise for his piece of the document. He will
offer merchandise for sale; buy it only if you need it.

 ORDER OF LOCATIONS: This is the order in which you should negotiate with the
spies: (1) Switzerland, (2) Egypt, (3) Greece, (4) India, (5) New York, (6)
Japan, (7) China, (8) Caribbean, (9) London, (10) San Francisco, and (11)
Washington, D.C.


 HACKER
 Part 2

 SECURITY SATELLITES: Fairly early in the game a security breach is detected and
Security Satellites are activated. You can avoid the satellites by surfacing
(they can't spot you above ground). However, if you are spotted by a satellite
you must respond with the proper password or be terminated. By this time you
have been given all the information you need to make the proper responses; but,
in case you missed it, the passwords are as follows: Level 1 Security Check
(Identify company name), MAGMA, LTD.; Level 2 Security Check (Identify SRU Model
Nr.), AX-0310479; Level 3 Security Check (Identify Motovator type), HYDRAULIC;
and Level 4 Security Check (location of test site), AUSTRALIA.

 SPY REQUIREMENTS: This includes what you should give to each spy and what you
should buy from him. (1) Switzerland: trade money for evidence; buy chronograph
and deed to Swiss Chalet. (2) Egypt: trade chronograph for evidence; buy scarab
and statuette of Tut. (3) Greece: trade statuette of Tut for evidence; buy
nothing. (4) India: trade scarab for evidence; buy nothing. (5) New York: trade
deed to Swiss Chalet for evidence; buy uncut diamond. (6) Japan: trade diamond
for evidence; buy pearls and camera. (7) China: trade pearls for evidence; buy
jade carving. (8) Caribbean: trade camera for evidence; buy nothing. (9) London:
trade jade carving for evidence; buy Beatles' album. (10) San Fransisco: trade
album for evidence; buy nothing. (11) Washington, D.C.: give all evidence to
secret agent; reap your reward.

 RUNNING OUT OF TIME: I found three things caused me to run out of time: wrong
routing, backtracking and surfacing to avoid satellites, and getting lost. If
you have worked out the requirements for each spy, have mapped your routes
properly, and know the satellite passwords, you should have enough time to
complete your mission. If you have done all this but are still running out of
time, you should look for a shortcut. The best shortcut is a route from China to
the Caribbean that actually (to me) looks longer but saves considerable time.
Counting each "bleep" as a move, go south 6 from China to Australia. Then work
your way around Australia to the lower edge of the map by going east 4, north 2,
east 4, south 2, east 2, south 2, east 2, and south 2. Then move east 12 to the
tip of South America. From there it's north 6 to the Caribbean.

 THE ENDING: The game has a good ending with lots of praise, a newspaper
article, and a printout for you. So stick with it and be a hero!

 [Note: Since this walkthru was written, a couple of changes were made in the
game. The order of the countries is the same, but the specific item for trading
may differ in your version. In addition, the route from California to
Washington, D.C. was changed for many machines, and you may need to get closer
to the test site. The following route will work in at least two of the new
versions: W1, S1, E10, N2, W2, S1, W3. In addition, try to time your long trip
west from England to California so the satellite catches you after you are
already moving.]

 HACKER is published by Activision.

