
	The vest of flameproof is in world seven, the tomb of praecor loth.
If you fall down ANY pit, you appear in a room with a trap-door in the
ceiling. From that room, go up the steps to the ladder and ascend to the
next level. The LEATHER VEST in that room is no ordinary vest, it is a vest
of FLAMEPROOF!

	The Hand Axe of Fire Doom is in world five or six, but it is the
Scintilus Mage Academy - whichever world that is!  You must then enter the
ethereal vault... where the room with the Vas and Tym runes, and the chest.
When opened, there is a jeweled hand axe. THIS IS NO ORDINARY AXE, but the
Hand Axe of Fire Doom!!!!

	The Sword of Stone strike was VERY hard to find, and I did not even
know I had it because it looks like an ordinary dull sword. I think I found
this in the tomb of praecor loth also, but I am not absolutely sure. I think
I may have found it in one of the tombs there.... just lying on the ground
unloved and untouched.

	All the other items I cast enchant multiple times on, and they increased
to there current power level - after all, my character is a MAGE!




****** CHEAT INFO AHEAD ******


Now I have to admit, I did cheat my stats some.... and here's how you can do it
too.


	Goto offset 34 in the PLAYER.DAT file.
	Change it to 00.
	Load the game.
	See what happened..... the skills are saved in about the next 20 or
	so hex's, you must experiment randomly to get good results, or find
	out the exact scheme. I think I know it, but have been too lazy to 
	actually make use of it - it requires good hex manipulation!


	Now, after you are satisfied with your skills, pick up the rune bag
	ONLY and save the game. Goto hex OFFSET 69,70,71. Change these to FF.

	Now restore the game, and look at the rune bag.... you will see 
	something similar to:L

	A B - D
	E - - H
	I - - - 
	M - O P
	Q - S -
	- V W -

	This would then be represented by one's for the letters (runes) and
	zero's for the blank spaces (no runes)

	1 1 0 1    D hex
	1 0 0 1    9 hex
	1 0 0 0    8 hex
	1 0 1 1    B hex
	1 0 1 0    A hex
	0 1 1 0    6 hex

	You would then change the FF FF FF you previously entered to the
	new hex D9 8B A6 from above. THIS WILL BE DIFFERENT FOR EVERY PERSON!

	This should give you ALL the runes in the game - if it did not work,
	then you made an error in the editing!

	I hope this info helps. Since I also now join the list of people who
	beat the game, any questions about quests may also be directed to me.

	Have a good Inauguration - now we have a new president.

								Brad
